Hello, Philadelphia. Man, it is good to be back in Pennsylvania. What beautiful weather we got here. Little Indian summer. I know the president spent some time in Erie last night, and apparently he complained about having to travel here. And then he cut the event short, poor guy. I don't feel that way. I love coming to Pennsylvania. You guys delivered for me twice and I am back here tonight to ask you to deliver the White House for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. I want to thank Mr. Philadelphia, Charlie Mack, his daughter, India Marie. What an outstanding young lady she was. Those of you who are fathers and have daughters you know how that feels when you see your daughters just shining. I know a little bit about that. And it was great to see representatives, Brendan Boyle, Mary Gay Scanlon, Governor Tom Wolf, Attorney General Josh Shapiro, Mayor Jim Kenney. Philadelphia we got 13 days. That's our lucky number right here. 13 days until the most important election of our lifetimes. And you don't have to wait for November 3rd to cast your ballot. You've got two ways to vote right now. Number one, you can vote early in person through next Tuesday. Anybody here voted early already? If you haven't, just go to iwillvote.com/pa and find out where you can vote early. Number two, you can vote from home with a mail-in ballot. Just go to iwillvote.com/pa to request your ballot right away. And before you send it back, Pennsylvania's got this thing where you've got to use both envelopes. So you've got to read the directions carefully to make sure your vote counts. And if you've already voted, then you've got to help your friends and family make a plan to vote. Take them with you if you vote early, or if you vote in-person on election day, because this election requires every single one of us to do our part. And what we do these next 13 days will matter for decades to come. Now, last time I was in Philadelphia, I was at the constitution center and I was delivering a speech for the Democratic National Convention this year. And I said, during that speech, I've sat in the Oval Office with both of the men who are running for president. And they are very different people. I explained that I never thought Donald Trump would embrace my vision or continue my policies but I did hope for the sake of the country that he might show some interest in taking the job seriously, but it hasn't happened. He hasn't shown any interest in doing the work or helping anybody but himself and his friends or treating the presidency like a reality show that he can use to get attention. And by the way, even then his TV ratings are down. So you know that upsets him. But the thing is, this is not a reality show, this is reality. And the rest of us have had to live with the consequences of him proving himself incapable of taking the job seriously. At least 220,000 Americans have died. More than 100,000 small businesses have closed. Millions of jobs are gone. Our proud reputation around the world is in tatters. Presidents up for reelection usually ask if the country is better off than it was four years ago. I'll tell you one thing, four years ago you'd be tailgating here at the Lincoln instead of watching a speech from your cars. The only people truly better off than they were four years ago are the billionaires who got his tax cuts. Right now as we speak, Trump won't even extend relief to the millions of families who are having trouble paying the rent or putting food on the table because of this pandemic. But he's been doing all right by himself. As it turns out, this was just reported in the last 48 hours. We know that he continues to do business with China because he's got a secret Chinese bank account. How is that possible? How is that possible? A secret Chinese bank account. Listen, can you imagine if I had had a secret Chinese bank account when I was running for reelection. You think Fox News might have been a little concerned about that? They would've called me Beijing Berry. It is not a great idea to have a president who owes a bunch of money to people overseas. That's not a good idea. I mean, of the taxes Donald Trump pays, he may be sending more to foreign governments than he pays in the United States. His first year in the White House he only paid $750 in federal income tax. Listen, my first job was at a Baskin Robbins when I was 15 years old. I think I'm might have paid more taxes that year working at a dispensing ice cream. How is that possible? How many people here pay less than that? It's just possible now that if you are living high on the hog and you only pay $750 in taxes that maybe, just maybe he might not know what working people are going through here in Pennsylvania. We cannot afford four more years of this, Philadelphia. But the good news is right now you can choose change. Right now you can vote for my friend Joe Biden and his running mate, Kamala Harris as the next president and vice president of the United States of America. Now, Joe's no stranger to here. He's a native son. Scrappy kid from scratch. You know him and he knows you. But let me, let me tell you how I came to Norman and how I came to love him. 12 years ago, when I chose Joe Biden as my vice presidential running mate, I didn't know Joe all that well. We had served in the Senate together, but we weren't super close. He and I came from different places. We came from different generations. But I came to admire Joe as a man who has learned early on to treat everybody he meets with dignity and respect, living by the words his parents taught him, no one's better than you Joe, but you're better than nobody. And that empathy, that decency, that belief that everybody counts, that's who Joe is. That's who he'll be. And I can tell you the presidency doesn't change who you are, it reveals who you are. And Joe has shown himself to be a friend of working people. For eight years, Joe was the last one in the room when I faced a big decision. He made me a better president and he's got the character and experience to make us a better country. And he and Kamala- A better country. And he and Kamala are going to be in the fight, not for themselves but for every single one of us. Well, I get that this president wants full credit for the economy he inherited and zero blame for the pandemic that he ignored. But you know what? The job doesn't work that way. Tweeting at the television doesn't fix things. Making stuff up doesn't make people's lives better. You've got to have a plan. You've got to put in the work. And along with the experience to get things done, Joe Biden has concrete plans and policies that will turn our vision of a better, fairer, stronger country into a reality. We literally left this White House a pandemic playbook that would have shown them how to respond before the virus reached our shores. They probably used it to I don't know, prop up a wobbly table somewhere. We don't know where that playbook went. Eight months into this pandemic, cases are rising again across this country. Donald Trump isn't suddenly going to protect all of us. He can't even take the basic steps to protect himself. Just last night, he complained up in eerie that the pandemic made him go back to work. I'm quoting him. He was upset that the pandemic's made him go back to work. If he'd actually been working the whole time, it never would've gotten this bad. So, look, here's the truth. I want to be honest here. This pandemic would have been challenging for any president but this idea that somehow this White House has done anything but completely screw this up. It's just not true. I'll give you a very specific example. Korea identified it's first case at the same time that the United States did. At the same time, their per capita death toll is just 1.3% of what ours is. In Canada, it's just 39% of what ours is. Other countries are still struggling with the pandemic but they're not doing as bad as we are because they've got a government that's actually been paying attention. And that means lives lost. And that means an economy that doesn't work. And just yesterday, when asked if he'd do anything differently, Trump said, "Not much." Really? Not much? Nothing you can think of that could have helped some people keep their loved ones alive? So, Joe's not going to screw up testing. He's not going to call scientists idiots. He's not going to host a super spreader event at the White House. Joe will get this pandemic under control with a plan to make testing free and widely available, to get a vaccine to every American cost free and to make sure our frontline heroes never ask other countries for their equipment they need. His plan will guarantee paid sick leave for workers and parents affected by the pandemic and make sure that the small businesses that hold our communities together and employ millions of Americans can reopen safely. Donald Trump likes to claim he built this economy but America created 1.5 million more jobs in the last three years of the Obama-Biden administration than in the first three years of the Trump-Pence administration. How you figure that? And that was before he could blame the pandemic. Now, he did inherit the longest streak of job growth in American history but just like everything else he inherited, he messed it up. The economic damage he inflicted by botching the pandemic response means he will be the first president since Herbert Hoover to actually lose jobs. Joe's got a plan to create 10 million good clean energy jobs as part of a historic $2 trillion investment to fight climate change, to secure environmental justice. And he'll pay for it by rolling back that tax cut for billionaires. And Joe sees this moment not just as a chance to get back to where we were but to finally make long overdue changes so that our economy actually makes life a little easier for everybody, the waitress trying to raise her kid on her own, the student trying to figure out how to pay for next semester's classes, the shift worker who's always on the edge of getting laid off, the cancer survivor who's worried about her preexisting conditions, protections being taken away. Let me tell you something Pennsylvania. This I know to be true, Joe and Kamala will protect your healthcare and expand Medicare and make insurance more affordable for everybody. Republicans love to say right before an election that they'll protect your preexisting conditions. Now, Joe and I actually protected your policies to make sure people with preexisting conditions could get health insurance and have coverage. We did it through something called the Affordable Care Act, a.k.a Obamacare. And Republicans tried to repeal or undermine it more than 60 times. And when they've been asked about, they keep on promising, "We're going to have a great replacement." They said, "It's coming." It's been coming in two weeks for the last 10 years. Where is it? Where is this great plan to replace Obamacare? They've had 10 years to do it. There is no plan. They've never had one. Instead they've attacked the Affordable Care Act at every turn, driving up costs, driving up the uninsured. Now, they're trying to dismantle your care in the Supreme court as we speak as quickly as they can in the middle of a pandemic with nothing but empty promises to take its place. It's shameful. The idea that you would take healthcare away from people at the very moment where people need it most, what is the logic of that? There is no logic. Joe knows that the first job of a president is to keep us safe from all threats, foreign, domestic or microscopic. When the daily intelligence briefings flash warning signs about a virus, a president can't ignore them. He can't be AWOL. Just like when Russia puts bounties on the heads of our soldiers in Afghanistan, the commander-in-chief can't be missing in action. I can tell you this, Joe Biden would never call the men and women of our military suckers or losers. Who does that? He knows these heroes are somebody's children, somebody's spouse, somebody's dad or mom. He understands that. And he's going to restore our standing in the world because he knows that America's true strength comes from setting an example that the world wants to follow. A nation that stands with democracy, not dictators, a nation that can mobilize and inspire others to overcome threats like climate change and terrorism and poverty and disease. And with Joe and Kamala at the helm, you're not going to have to think about the crazy things they said every day. And that's worth a lot. You're not going to have to argue about them every day. It just won't be so exhausting. You might be able to have a Thanksgiving dinner without having an argument. You'll be able to go about your lives knowing that the president is not going to retweet conspiracy theories about secret cabals running the world or that maybe seals didn't actually kill bin Laden. Think about that. The president of the United States retweeted that. Imagine. What? What? We're not going to have a president that goes out of his way to insult anybody who doesn't support him or threaten them with jail. That's not normal presidential behavior. That's not normal presidential behavior. We wouldn't tolerate it from a high school principal. We wouldn't tolerate it from a coach. We wouldn't tolerate it from a co-worker. We wouldn't tolerate it in our family, except for maybe crazy uncle somewhere. I mean, why would we expect and accept this from the President of the United States? And why are folks making excuses for that? "Oh, well, that's just him." No. There are consequences to these actions. They embolden other people to be cruel and divisive and racist, and it frays the fabric of our society, and it affects how our children see things. And it affects the ways that our families get along. It affects how the world looks at America. That behavior matters. Character matters. And by the way, while he's doing all that, it distracts all of us from the truly destructive actions that his appointees are doing all across the government, actions that affect your lives. The Environmental Protection Agency that's supposed to protect our air and our water is right now run by an energy lobbyist that gives polluters free reign to dump unlimited poison into our air and water. The Labor Department that's supposed to protect workers and their rights, right now it's run by a corporate lobbyist who's declared war on workers, guts protections to keep essential folks safe during a pandemic, makes it easier for big corporations to shortchange them on their wages. The Interior Department, that's supposed to protect our public lands and wild spaces, our wildlife and our wilderness. And right now that's run by an oil lobbyist who's determined to sell them to the highest bidder. You've got the Education Department that's supposed to give every kid a chance, and that's run by a billionaire who guts rules designed to protect students from getting ripped off by for profit colleges and stiffs arm students looking for loan relief in the middle of an economic collapse. I mean, the person who runs Medicaid right now is doing their best to kick people off of Medicaid instead of sign them up for Medicaid. Come on. When Joe and Kamala are in charge, they're not going to surround themselves with hacks and lobbyists, but they're going to appoint qualified public servants who actually care about looking out for you, for your job, for your family, for your health, for your security, for your planet, and that more than anything is what separates them from their opponents. They actually care about every American, including the ones that don't agree with them. And they're going to fight for you every day. They care about you and they care about this democracy. They believe in a democracy. The right to vote is sacred and that we shouldn't be making people wait in line for 10 hours to cast their ballot. We should be making it easier for everybody to vote. They believe that no one, especially the President, is above the law. They understand that protest on behalf of social justice isn't un-American. That's the most American thing there is. That's how this country was founded, protesting injustice. They understand we don't threaten our political opponents threatening to throw them in jail, just because we disagree with them. They understand that our ability to work together to solve big problems like a pandemic depends more than on just photo-ops. It depends on actually learning the facts and following the science and not just making stuff up whenever it's convenient. Our democracy is not going to work if the people who are supposed to be our leaders lie every day and just make things up. And we've just become numb to it. We've just become immune to it. Every single day, fact checkers can't keep up. And, look, this notion of truthfulness and democracy and citizenship, and being responsible, these aren't Republican or democratic principles, they're American principles. They're what most of us grew up learning from our parents and our grandparents. They're not White or Black or Latino or Asian values, they're American values, human values, and we need to reclaim them. We have to get those values back at the center of our public life. And we can. But to do it, we've got to turn out like never before. We cannot leave any doubt in this election, because you know the President's already said, "If this is even close, I'm going to just make stuff up." He's already started to do it. So we can't have any doubt. We can't be complacent. I don't care about the polls. There were a whole bunch of polls last time, didn't work out, because a whole bunch of folks stayed at home and got lazy and complacent. Not this time, not in this election, not this time. Listen, listen. I understand why a lot of Americans can get frustrated by government and can feel like it doesn't make a difference. Even supporters of mine, during my eight years, there were times where stuff we wanted to get done didn't get done and people said, "Well, gosh, if Obama didn't get it done, then maybe it's just not going to happen." Look, government is not going to solve every problem, it's true. Every elected officials going to make some mistakes. This is a big complicated country and the system's designed so that change happens slowly. It doesn't happen overnight. And believe me, I've got firsthand experience with the way Republicans in Congress abused the rules to make it easy for special interest to stop progress. But we can make things better, and we shouldn't be making things worse. A president by himself can't solve every challenge in a global economy. But if we've got Joe Biden and Kamala Harris in the White House at a House and Senate that are focused on working people, it can make a difference and get millions of people the help they need. A president by himself can't eliminate all racial bias in our criminal justice system. But if we've got district attorneys and state's attorneys and sheriffs and police chiefs focused on equality and justice, it can make things better. In Pennsylvania, you've just got to flip nine seats in your State House, just five seats in your State Senate, to give Democrats control and new life for policies that'll make a real difference to working families right now. It can make things better. In the end, Pennsylvania, that's what voting's about, making things better, not making things perfect, but putting us on track so that a generation from now we can look back and say, "Things got better starting now." And that's what voting's about. Voting's about using the power we have and pooling it together to get a government that's more concerned and more responsive and more focused on you and your lives and your children and your grandchildren and future generations. And the fact that we don't get 100% of … … and future generations. And the fact that we don't get 100% of what we want right away is not a good reason not to vote. It means we've got to vote and then get some change and then vote some more and then get some more change, and then keep on voting until we get it right. And we will never come close to seeing what it would be like if everybody voted, when I hear people say, "Well, I don't know, you're voting don't make a difference." We don't know because usually no more than half the people who could be voting vote. We get 50, 55% of people voting. And then people say, "Well, look, not enough change happened." Well, imagine what would happen if 60% voted? What about 70%? Imagine January 20th, when we swear in a president and a vice president who have a plan to get us out of this mess, who believe in science, and they have a plan to protect this planet for our kids, and who care about working Americans, and they have a plan to help you start getting ahead. And who believe in racial equality and gender equality, and believe in not discriminating against people because of their sexual orientation, and are willing to bring us closer to an America where no matter what we look like and where we come from, who we love and what our last name is, if we go out there and we work, we can make it. And we're part of an American family. All of that is possible. All of that is within our reach, if we vote. Because let me tell you something Pennsylvanians, people ask me sometimes, they say, "Man, how have you been able to take these last four years, just watching all this? How do you keep your spirits up?" And I tell him, I say, look for all the times, these last four years that we've seen our worst impulses revealed, we've also seen what our country can be at its best. We've seen folks of every age and background who've packed city centers and airports in town squares, just so families wouldn't be separated. So another classroom wouldn't get shot up, so our kids wouldn't grow up on an uninhabitable planet. We've seen Americans more racist, joining together to declare in the face of injustice that black lives matter, no more, but no less, so that no child in this country feels the continuing sting of racism. We've seen folks, our essential workers, our healthcare workers risking their lives day in day out to save somebody else's loved ones. We've seen people volunteer and contribute to help those who are having an especially difficult time that right now. That's true in Pennsylvania, that's true all across the country. America is a good and decent place, but we've just seen so much noise and nonsense that sometimes it's hard for us to remember. Philadelphia, I'm asking you to remember what this country can be. What it's like when we treat each other with respect and dignity, what it's like when our elected officials actually behave responsibly. I'm asking you to believe in Joe's ability, in Kamala's ability to lead this country out of these dark times, and help us build it back better, because we can't abandon those who are hurting right now. We can't abandon the children who aren't getting the education they need right now. We can't abandon those protesters who inspired us. We've got to channel their activism into action, we can't just imagine a better future. We've got to fight for it. We've got to out hustle the other side, we got to outwork the other side, we've got to vote like never before and leave no doubt. So make a plan right now, for how you're going to get involved and vote. Do it as early as you can. Tell your family, tell your friends how they can vote. Don't stop with Joe and Kamala, make sure you vote all the way down the ticket. And if we pour all our efforts into these 13 days, if we vote up and down the ticket, like never before, then we will not only elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, we will also leave no doubt about what this country that we love stands for. We will not leave any doubt about who we are as a people, and the values and ideals that we embrace. What Lincoln called the better angels of our nature, those are still in us. We see them operating every single day. We see them in neighborhoods, we see them in churches and synagogues and mosques and temples. We see them in people helping out a neighbor. We see them them inside our own families. We see that what is best in us is still there, but we've got to give it voice, and we've got to do it now. So let's get to work people. Let's bring this home. I love you, Philadelphia. Honk if you're fired up, honk if you're ready to go. Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Let's go make it happen. I love you Philadelphia. Thank you. I love you. Come on. Hello, Atlanta. Hello, Georgia. Can everybody please give  a big round of applause? That's the kind of young people that are going to lead the way. Oh, I am excited. Thank you for arranging for good weather. It is good to be back. I've got one word for you, Atlanta: Tomorrow. Tomorrow. After four years of failure, you have the power to change America. Tomorrow, you can put an end to the politics that tries to divide a nation just to win an election, that tries to stoke conspiracy theories and fear at a time when we need competence and we need hope. Tomorrow is the most important election of our lifetimes, and you can deliver the change that we need. Well, you're going to have to vote. If you haven't dropped off your ballot yet, please do not wait any longer. If you voted already, help your friends and family find their polling places at iwillvote.com. Help them make a plan to vote tomorrow because this election is going to take every single one of us. Right here in Georgia, you've got an even bigger power to deliver the change that we need. You can be a state that sends Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to the White House. I got a chance to campaign with Joe over the weekend. It felt like the old days. For eight years, he was the last one in the room whenever I faced a big decision. He made me a better president, and he's got the character and the experience to make us a better country. He and Kamala are going to be in the fight not for themselves, but for every single one of us, but if they are going to deliver the change we need getting this pandemic under control, restarting our economy, protecting our healthcare, protecting our planet, reforming our criminal justice system, giving every young person a equal chance, then they're also going to need a Senate that actually cares about those things. Georgia, not only can you put Joe and Kamala over the top, but you can be the state that gives us all a better chance because you've also said, "Jon Ossoff and Reverend Raphael Warnock to the United States Senate." I didn't originally plan to come to Georgia. You see all this gray hair I got? It still looks good, you said? All right. I'll let Michelle know. But the reason I'm here, look, I thought after my last campaign in 2012, I thought, "All right, I'll campaign in '16, and then I'll just go off and write my book and work on my golf game and spend a little more time with my wife." Things didn't work out the way we expected because we weren't focused. Each one of us didn't do everything we needed to do, and so in this election, when I got a call and said, "Look, Georgia, Georgia could be the state, Georgia could be the place where we put this country back on track, and not just because Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have a chance to win Georgia, but you got the chance to flip two Senate seats?" I said, "Well, I got to go. I got to come." I told Michelle, "I'm sorry, babe. I got to go to Georgia. This is a big deal." You have two extraordinary candidates and Jon and the Reverend who deserve your vote. Let's face it. You've also got two senators who badly need to be replaced. Look, I served in the Senate. I remember when we used to get briefings in the Senate for threats, including the kinds of briefings that your two current senators got about COVID-19. They got briefed. You go into this room, and it's all top secret, and you got to close everything off and you can't take anything out of the briefing room because this is part of your responsibility as a public servant. The point of these briefings is so that you can take quick action to protect the American people before it's too late. That's why the Senate gets these special briefings, to serve the interests of the people who have sent you to Washington, to serve their interests before your own. When I heard that your two senators here in Georgia… Understand what I'm about to say now is not a partisan statement. I'd be just as hard if I heard the Democrat was doing this. Your two senators publicly were telling you that the virus would be no big deal, but behind closed doors, they were making a bunch of moves in the stock market to try to make sure their portfolios were protected instead of making sure you are protected. Man, that's shady. I mean, that ain't right. They downplayed the pandemic in public and in private. They're trying to see if they can profit from it. Both of them. Not just one of them. Both of them. They're like Batman and Robin gone bad. It's like the dynamic duo of doing wrong. I don't know what they were thinking, but Georgia, I promise you, Georgia was definitely not on their mind. It was not. What's the result of betraying the public's trust? 230,000 Americans are dead. More than a hundred thousand small businesses have closed. Almost 200,000 jobs are gone in Georgia alone. If President Trump and your senators had been focused on COVID from the beginning instead of their portfolios or their TV ratings, cases wouldn't be reaching new record highs across the country. Just this week, nine months into the pandemic, America just had the single worst week of new cases. Think about that. All the people who voluntarily quarantined, all the folks who've been working at home, all the mothers and fathers who've been looking after their children at home trying to keep everybody safe, and after all that, we saw the worst week because we had people like your two senators who were not taking it seriously. We had a president who was pretending it was just like a bad flu. Now Trump's chief of staff finally admits what we've known all along. He was quoted. Just a few days ago. He said, "We're not going to control the pandemic." Well, yeah, we noticed. You definitely are not, but you know what? Joe Biden and Kamala Harris can get on top of this pandemic. If we got two new senators from Georgia, we can have a government that's making that happen. What's Trump's closing argument right now? Last night on his COVID spreader tour… He's going around spreading COVID. He's like a carrier because he cares more about having big crowds than he does about keeping people safe. He told his supporters- … say. He told his supporters, "Don't tell anybody, but he's going to fire Dr. Fauci after the election." Don't boo. Vote. We had signs up a couple of days ago, it was Halloween, had a ghost on there, said, "Don't boo. Vote." Come on. So just in case you were worried that Trump had been taking COVID too seriously, he's stated publicly he's going to fire the one person in the administration, a carry over, was also the president when I was in there, helped me deal with Ebola and H1N1, was one of the people who was at the front lines of dealing with HIV AIDS, one of the world's leading experts on infectious disease, one of the few people in this administration who has been taking the seriously all along. And what did he say? His second term plan is to fire that guy. I mean, they've already said they're not going to contain the pandemic. Now they want to fire the one person who could actually help them contain the pandemic. So Georgia, if you think they've done a bad job at managing COVID so far, basically what they're telling you now is you ain't seen nothing yet. Trump's saying, in this election, he's been saying he might declare victory before all the votes have been counted. Well, that's just what he did on this virus. And how'd that turn out? Listen, America deserves better than this. Georgia, you deserve better than this. You really do. And here's the good news. Tomorrow, you can choose something better. Tomorrow, you can send Jon Ossoff and Reverend Warnock to the United States Senate. And they can team up with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris and get on top of this crisis. Yes, we can. Let me, just in case you're unfamiliar with the track record of the two outstanding candidates for Senate that you've heard from. Jon Ossoff's life has prepared him to serve as your Senator. He learned about public service from my dear friend, one of my lifelong heroes, John Lewis. He's dedicated his career to fighting injustice. He knows we need a new Voting Rights Act that makes sure every Georgian is treated equally under the law, that makes sure every Georgian can exercise the right to vote that people like John Lewis bled for. Jon Ossoff runs a company that investigates crime and corruption around the world, which sounds like something we could use in Washington right now. That's like kryptonite to Donald Trump and those corporate lobbyists that he's all put in his cabinet. It's like water on the Wicked Witch. You remember. Jon's wife, Alisha, is a doctor. She delivers babies. And like so many doctors who've been risking their lives to save others, so many nurses and healthcare workers on the front lines, Alisha has been putting herself at risk. So you know that Jon's not going to go around accusing doctors of trying to profit from the pandemic. You heard that's what Trump said, right? He said, "Well, doctors are exaggerating this because they just want to make more money." These doctors, these nurses, these healthcare workers, they are in there, they are exposing themselves to this disease. They are more at risk than anybody. And Jon Ossoff understands that because he's seeing it in his own family. He's going to listen to the experts and work with Joe Biden to get this pandemic under control with a plan to make testing and vaccines free for every American and make sure our frontline heroes never have to ask other countries for the equipment they need because it's going to be here, right there ready for American workers. And you know the other thing Jon's going to do is he's going to protect your healthcare. There have been more than nine million cases of COVID-19 in America. And even for folks who get better, your insurer could still consider COVID-19 a pre-existing condition, which means you might not be able to get insurance next time if the protections that we put in place 10 years ago with the Affordable Care Act were eliminated. Republicans love to say right before an election they're going to protect your preexisting conditions. Listen, with the Affordable Care Act, Joe Biden and I actually did it 10 years ago. Those protections are already in place. We were acquired insurers to cover your pre-existing conditions. And since then, Republicans have tried to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act more than 60 times. They've promised, "Don't worry. After we repeal it, we're going to replace it with a really wonderful plan." Every two weeks for 10 years they've been promising a new plan. Have you seen this new plan? I haven't either. Nobody's seen it. You know why? Because they don't have a new plan. They've just attacked the Affordable Care Act at every turn, and in the process, driven up costs, driven up the uninsured. Now they're in the Supreme Court trying to get the Supreme Court to take your healthcare away in the middle of a pandemic. Why would you do that? Just to spite me? Why in the middle of a pandemic would you offer nothing but empty promises and try to kick people off their healthcare? Georgia, something got to go. It's either your senators or your healthcare. If I were you, I'd choose your healthcare. Get rid of the senators who are trying to take it away. You know your senators aren't going to stand up to protect it. They love to talk tough like President Trump. But one of the things they have in common with them is when you start calling them out, they cut and run. You saw president Trump. He's in the middle of a 60 Minutes interview. He just walked out. It's too tough. He quit in the middle of an interview. Somebody is asking them, "Well, what are you going to do in your second term?" "That's too tough. I'm leaving." And then you saw it again last week when Jon Ossoff called out Senator Perdue on healthcare in their debate. Perdue was like one of those chickens. I would have felt bad for the guy if he hadn't voted four times to take away your pre-existing conditions protections. Four times he voted against it. They were supposed to have another debate last night. Perdue chickened out, pulled out. The scariest Halloween costume he saw this year was Jon Ossoff in debate. But let me tell you what's really scary, Georgia. Republicans threatening to end preexisting conditions protections for 100 million people in the middle of a pandemic. That is scary. And you have the power to do something about it. Jon Ossoff and Joe Biden will protect your healthcare. They will expand Medicare. They will make insurance more affordable for everyone. And so will Reverend Raphael Warnock. Let me talk about the good Reverend right now. I won't preach, but I will offer testimony. This is a man who preaches at Ebeneezer Baptist Church in the pulpit of its great pastor, Dr. King. He's read the gospels and they might not have known about pre-existing conditions back then, but the Reverend will tell you Jesus spent time healing the sick, caring for the poor. When Georgia Republicans fought against expanding Medicaid to cover hundreds of thousands of your fellow Georgians, Reverend Warnock followed the example of John Lewis and got himself arrested getting into good trouble. Reverend Warnock's life prepared him to live in service to others. He doesn't just talk the talk. He walks the walk. Here's a man who grew up in public housing in Savannah with 11 brothers and sisters. That's a lot of brothers and sisters- … in Savannah with 11 brothers and sisters. That's a lot of brothers and sisters. That taught him a little bit about working together, by looking out for others, about sharing. His mom spent her summers as a young woman, picking cotton and tobacco. His dad was a veteran and a small businessman who preached on Sunday. He knows about the power of opportunity and the God-given right to dignity and decent wages for working people. Reverend Warnock earned his degree at Morehouse, a Morehouse man, but he did it with the help of Pell Grants and student loans, so, you know, he's going to fight for every single young person who dreams of a college education, but doesn't know how he or she's going to pay for next semester's classes. He's been there. Last time I saw Reverend in person, was in Ebeneezer Baptist church for the Memorial service for John Lewis. He possesses the moral courage John did, to question right, and wrong and call things for what they are. He's got the moral clarity to shine a spotlight on injustice and make the powers that be, uncomfortable. We need some folks who will shake things up a little bit, and he's going to lead us in Washington to overcome our own complacency and our own fears and our own prejudices, to become better truer versions of ourselves. That's who he is, and that's who we all need to be. Look, we got one day left. I've been making a lot of arguments out there. Some of them should be obvious, and yet I know that there's still people out there who aren't voting. I want to talk to you right now. The people of Georgia right now, who decided not to vote. Maybe you don't like who's in the White House right now, but you just lost faith in government. You're frustrated. You don't think government makes a difference. Maybe you're troubled by what the two current senators in Georgia have done, but you're not really confident or certain about how much of a difference it'll make in your lives. I understand that. The government's not perfect. Government doesn't solve every problem. We've got a long legacy in this country, of hardship and prejudice and people who are powerful and rich, taking advantage of folks who aren't. We have a history right here in Georgia, that John Lewis fought and other fought, and sometimes I can get down. Michelle can get down. Sometimes we're at dinner table. We're just like, "Lord, why are we still fighting some of these battles? I thought we settled some of these arguments. I thought we had turned the corner. Why are we still hearing people praise folks who think that the color of your skin determines your status? Why are we still acting as if women shouldn't be treated the same as men, and paid the same for doing the same work? Why are we having these old arguments? I thought these were done." It can be discouraging sometimes. You drive through some neighborhoods in Atlanta or Chicago or Washington DC, or you go out in some rural areas and some small towns, and you think, "You know what? Folks are still having a hard time, and some of the things that should have been fixed, haven't been fixed," and you get discouraged. I get it. Even as President of the United States, there were times where I thought, "Man, I want … I thought I could get this done or that done, and somehow the special interests and the lobbyists and others are blocking it and making it hard." You get frustrated. I get it. But you know what? Whenever I get in one of those moods, I just remind myself that when we work together, when we put in a little bit of effort, things may not get perfect, but they do get better. When John Lewis started marching across that bridge, it didn't eliminate racism and bigotry in America, but it started something that got the Voting Rights Act passed. It made things better. I didn't get everything done that I want to get done when I was president. But I could say, when I looked back at the end eight years, you know what? The country is better off now than it was when I took office. 20-some million million people have healthcare that didn't have it before. That's a good thing. Children that were in poverty had been lifted up out of poverty, not all of them, but some of them. That's a good thing. Maybe this next generation came up and saw that black and white can work together, that we don't have to be at odds, that we can treat each other with dignity and respect, that we don't have to be scared of each other, but should reach out to each other. A president by himself, can't solve every challenge in the economy. But if we elect people like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, if we elect Reverend Warnock and Jon Ossoff, who are focused on working people and getting you the help that you need, it can make a difference for thousands of people and 10 thousands of people, maybe a few million people might be better off. A president, by himself, can't eliminate all racial bias in our criminal justice system. But, if we elect district attorneys and state's attorneys and sheriffs who are focused on equality and justice, it can make things better. John understood this. Dr. King understood this. Abraham Lincoln understood it. George Washington understood it. John, I remember talking to John Lewis right before he passed. We talked about all these young people who had come out to start this wave of marches, non-violent, peaceful protests all across the country. We talked about how this younger generation, they don't have to choose between protest and politics. If we're going to translate our aspirations into laws and practices, we've got to engage in both. There's nothing un-American about protest. This country was founded on protesting against injustice. That's what the American Revolution was about. John ran for office all those years, and kept protesting even while he was in office, because he understood they're two sides of the same coin. It's us acting on behalf of our highest aspirations, even though we know we won't get there. We're never going to get all the way to the Promised Land, but we can help lay the path for future generations to get there. That's what public service should be about. That's what citizenship should be about. That's what voting is about. Not making things perfect, but making things better, laying that path, brick by brick, to a better future, putting us on track, so that a generation from now, two generations from now, three generations from now, we can look back and we can say, "Yeah, that was a moment when we turned towards our better angels, towards our better impulses, where we started to pull together as a nation, instead of being riven apart." The fact that we don't get 100% of what we want, is not a good reason not to vote. We got to keep at it. Typically, just over 50% of us vote. Think about that. Almost half the people who are eligible, typically, do not vote. Yes, part of this is because folks make it hard to vote. Your governor right here in Georgia, seems to make it his job to come up with ways to make it as hard as possible for some Georgians to vote. I- These folks sure are scared of folks voting, aren't they? Think about that. If you've decided you don't want to vote. Don't you wonder why it is that the folks in power are so worried about you voting? There must be a reason why they're trying to make it hard for you to vote, it's because they know if you vote, things change, the answer is not to stay home, it's to turn out like never before and show them what's in your heart. Show them the spirit of community. Imagine if 60% of us voted. Imagine if 70% of us voted, not a hundred percent, just 70%. Imagine January 20th. When we swear in President Biden and Vice President Harris and Reverend Warnock and John Ossoff are in the United States Senate. Imagine having leaders in office who have a plan to get us out of this mess and who care about working Americans and have a plan to help you start getting ahead, who believe in science and have a plan to protect this planet for our kids, who believe in racial equality and are willing to do the work to bring us closer to an America where no matter what you look like, or where you come from, or who you love, or how much money you got, everybody's treated with dignity. Everybody's treated with respect. Everybody, if they're willing to work hard, has a chance to make it. Imagine having public officials who you abide by the values our mamas and our grandmas and grandpas taught us. Being honest, being responsible, working hard, looking after those who can't look after themselves, showing compassion, believing in justice. All that is possible. All that is within our reach for all. And the reason I know it is, is because I've seen it all across the country. Every time I've gotten discouraged over these last four years, whenever I've seen our worst impulses revealed, I've also seen America at its best. I've seen folks of every age and background look out for other people, packing cities and town squares so that families wouldn't be separated, rallying so that another classroom won't get shot up, proclaiming that we need to do something to make sure our kids won't grow up in an uninhabitable planet. We have seen healthcare workers risk their lives daily to save somebody else's loved ones. We've seen people contribute and volunteer, bring food to neighbors, help out the elderly who are alone, who are having an especially hard time. WRight now we've seen Americans of all races join together to declare in the face of injustice and brutality that black lives matter no more, but no less. That we don't want anybody feeling superior or better than anybody else. We just want everybody to treat each other with common decency and respect. That's all we want, just basic fairness so that no child in this country should feel the continuing sting of racism and that they're judged by the content of their character. We've seen people march all across this country. You've seen towns where they're barely any black folks and they still got folks marching with signs up because they believe that we can be better. Georgia, America's a good and decent place. We've just seen so much noise and so much nonsense and distraction. And we've seen media companies and politicians make a business of making us hate each other because it drives clicks and drives eyeballs. And so sometimes it's hard to remember, but I'm asking you to remember what this country can be. Georgia is a better place than it used to be. There used to be a lot of violence and cruelty in this place. And it's a better place because some folks went out there and made sacrifices, black and white. In America, it's a better place than it used to be, but it can be better now, but you've got to do the work. It's all up to you now. I'm asking you in your ability to believe in John Ossoff and Reverend Warnock and Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, but most importantly, your collective ability to get us out of these dark times and help us build back better. I'm asking you to believe in your ability to change America. We can't abandon the Americans who are hurting right now. We can't abandon the young people who aren't getting the education they deserve right now. We can't abandon those young people who are out there who inspired us this summer. We've got to channel their activism in action. We can't just imagine a better future. We've got to fight for it. If you haven't voted yet, go out and vote. It's not that much to ask, go out there and vote, do this basic thing that can make America better. Tomorrow we can choose to protect healthcare for our families. Tomorrow we can rebuild an economy that rewards working Americans and not just the wealthy of us. Tomorrow we can elect leaders who reflect our best instincts and not our worst. Tomorrow we can choose hope over fear and unity over division. The promise to change over the power of the status quo. And if we do, Georgia, we vote like our lives depend on it because they do, we will let John Ossoff and Reverend Warnock to the United States Senate, we will send Joe Biden, Kamala Harris to the White House, and we will leave no doubt about who we are and what this country stands for. Honk if you're ready to go. Honk if you're fired up. Georgia, let's do this. Let's go out there and show that we believe. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Hello, Florida. Oh, it's good to be back in Florida. Can everybody please give it up for George? What an outstanding young man. He is the number one senior at Miami Northwestern with a perfect GPA. Let me just say that when I was George's age, I did not have a perfect GPA. What a remarkable young man, we're so proud of him. That's the future. Give it up for your representative Frederica Wilson. We've also got Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and your state agricultural commissioner Nikki Fried. They're in the house. You got that horn honking good. So 10 days, Miami. 10 days until the most important election in our lifetimes. But the good news is you don't have to wait for November 3rd to cast your ballot. You've got two ways to vote right now. Number one, you can vote early in person right now through next Sunday. Number two, you can vote from home with a mail-in ballot. Do not wait, put it in the mail today or drop it off at a drop box location in Miami-Dade County. And if you need more information, just go to iwillvote.com to find out where to early vote in person or to drop off your ballot. And if you've already voted, what do you need to do? You've got to go help your friends and family make a plan to vote. Because this election requires every single one of us. What we do in these next 10 days will matter for decades to come. Now, I've sat in the Oval Office with both of the men who are running for president. They're very different people. Donald Trump, I knew he would not embrace my vision. I knew he wasn't going to continue my policies, but I did hope that for the country's sake, he'd show at least a little bit of interest in taking the job seriously. That's not how it worked out. He hasn't shown any interest in doing the work or helping anybody except himself and his friends or treating the presidency like a reality show to give himself more attention. And as we noted the other day, his TV ratings are down. But, listen, Miami, the rest of us have to live with the consequences of what he's done. At least 220,000 Americans are dead. More than 100,000 small businesses have closed. Half a million jobs are gone right here in Florida, half a million jobs. And I understand the president's coming to Florida today. You think he's hard at work, coming up with a plan to get us out of this mess? Well, I don't know because I know he's had a tough week. Everybody's been very unfair to Donald Trump this week. In his debate with Joe on Thursday night… And by the way, I thought Joe Biden was unbelievable this week. He was fantastic this week. But during the debate, Trump was asked, " What is your plan for the new phase of COVID?" Which is a pretty good question, considering that we just saw the highest number of cases spike up yesterday. So you would think he'd be ready for a response. Instead, he just said it wasn't his fault and he didn't have one. He said, " It's now gone in a bunch of states," just as states are reaching new record highs nationwide. He doesn't have a plan. He doesn't even acknowledge the reality of what's taking place all across the country. And it gets better because he also sat down with 60 Minutes. He was asked, "What's your priority in your second term?" And let me say, I've run for president, Miami, so I just want you to know it's a good idea to have an answer to this question. It's a good idea if you're running for reelection to say, "Here's what I want to accomplish." What did Trump say? He got mad and walked out of the interview. He thought the questions were too tough, too tough. Miami, listen, if he can't answer a tough question like, "What would you like to do in your second term," then it's our job to make sure he doesn't get a second term. And that's why over the next 10 days, we got to hard to elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, the next president and vice president of the United States. I love the creative honking. It's fantastic. Now, listen, you delivered twice for me, Florida. And now I'm asking you to deliver for Joe and deliver for Kamala. 12 years ago, when I chose the vice president, I didn't know Joe that well. We served in the Senate together, but we come from different places, we're part of different generations, but I quickly came to admire and love Joe as a man who early on learned to treat everybody with dignity and respect, somebody who lives by the words his parents taught him, "Nobody's better than you, Joe, but you're better than nobody." And that sense of empathy, that sense of decency, the belief that every single person counts, that's who Joe is. That's who he'll be. And I can tell you the presidency doesn't change who you are. It just reveals who you are. It amplifies who you are. And for eight years, I saw Joe up close. He was the last one in the room whenever I faced a big decision. He made me a better president. He's got the character and experience to make us a better country. And he and Kamala are going to be in the fight, not for themselves, but for every single one of us. And that's what you need right now, somebody who cares about you and is thinking about you. Listen, I understand that the president, he wants full credit for the economy he inherited and zero blame for the pandemic that he ignored. As a general rule, this is not a person who likes to take responsibility for anything. But the job doesn't work that way. Just like George said, tweeting on television doesn't fix things. Inventing conspiracies don't make people's lives better. You've got to have a plan. You've got to do the work. And along with the experience of getting things done, Joe Biden has concrete plans and policies that are going to turn our vision of a better, fairer, stronger country into reality. We literally left this White House a pandemic playbook that showed them how to respond before a virus reached our shores. They must be lost along with the Republican healthcare plan. We can't find them. Eight months into this pandemic, eight months into this pandemic, new cases are breaking records. Donald Trump isn't going to suddenly protect all of us. He can't even take the basic steps to protect himself. There's no sense that he's coming up with a new approach, with a new plan. He doesn't even acknowledge that there's a problem. Just this week, he complained that the pandemic was making him go back to work. If he'd been working in the first place, we would never have seen the situation get this bad. Listen, I have said this before, I am going to say it again. This pandemic would have been tough for any president because we haven't seen something like this in a hundred years. But the idea that somehow this White House has done anything but completely screw this thing up is nonsense. We can compare what happened in other countries to what happened in this one. So South Korea identified its first case at the same time as the US got its first case. Their per capita death toll… What that means is the number of people that died, let's say, out of a hundred people, how many people died? Their death toll is 1.3% of what ours is. Nowhere near the number of people have died in South Korea because their government took care of business. Closer to home, Canada, their per capita death rate's just 39% of what ours is. Their government, faced with a difficult situation, same pandemic, they said, "Let's take the steps to minimize the damage and the harm to ordinary people, and…" The damage and the harm to ordinary people and they save lives. So we can compare directly what happened in the United States and what happened somewhere else. What happens when a government is paying attention and what happens when the government is not. And then earlier this week when the president was asked would you do anything differently? Anything? He said, not much. Not the much. I mean, he couldn't even acknowledge that maybe we should have taken some steps earlier to start testing people. Maybe we should have taken it more seriously and not pretended like it didn't exist. Maybe we shouldn't have had the president get on television and say that if you put some bleach in you, that might clean things up. Just maybe that might've made a difference. The mismanagement would be comical and ridiculous if it didn't mean people losing lives, if it didn't mean the economy not recovering. And the pandemic has hit African Americans and Latinos harder than anybody in Florida. I bet you can think of some things you would've liked to see the government done differently. So just a baseline is that Joe and Kamala take this seriously. Joe understands how much it hurts for grandparents to not be able to see their grandkids or hug each other. They understand that you can't effectively economy moving again as long as people are afraid of getting a disease. He's not going to screw up testing. He's not going to call scientists idiots. He's not going to host a super spreader event at the White House like the way this current president did. So Joe is going to get this pandemic under control with a plan that makes testing free and widely available, which we should have been doing months ago. He's going to get a vaccine to every American cost-free, and he's going to make sure that our frontline heroes never have to ask other countries for the equipment that they need to keep themselves safe while they're taking care of us. His plan will guarantee paid sick leave for workers and parents affected by the pandemic. And he's going to make sure that the small businesses that hold our communities together and employ millions of Americans can reopen safely. Donald Trump likes to claim he built this economy. Some people actually give him credit for it. Listen, America created 1.5 million more jobs in the last year of the Obama-Biden administration than in the first three years of the Trump-Pence administration. Unemployment was steadily going down during the Obama-Biden presidency and then he gets elected and it keeps on going down and suddenly he says, look what I did. Their first three years fell short of our last three and that was before he could blame the pandemic. He did inherit the longest streak of job growth in American history that we got started, but just like everything else he inherited, he fumbled it. The economic damage he inflicted by botching the pandemic response means that Donald Trump will be the first president since Herbert Hoover to actually lose jobs. He loves talking about black unemployment, says he's the best president for black folks since Abe Lincoln. What? Listen, black unemployment almost at 17% during the great recession 10 years ago and through a lot of hard work, Joe and I helped get it down to 7.8 by the time we left office and it just kept on going down, like all the other employment rate was going down not because Donald Trump did anything. This year, it went way up, back to 17% right here in Florida, and he hadn't had an answer for it. The only people truly better off than they were four years ago are the billionaires who got Trump tax cuts. Meanwhile, he won't even extend relief to the millions of families who can't pay the rent or put food on the table in this pandemic. And the fact that he can't make that happen, that he won't make that happen, it's hard to understand because it's not like it's his money. He barely pays income taxes. He had no problem paying a ton of money in taxes to China from his secret Chinese bank account. Hold up a second. Let me just see a show of hands. How many people here have secret Chinese bank accounts? Who's got a secret Chinese bank account? His first year in the White House he only paid $750 in federal income tax. You got secretaries, you've got construction workers, you've got healthcare workers, nurses, who pay a lot more in income taxes than that. Listen, I'm not saying that like on tax day I'm just so happy about all the taxes I pay, but I pay more than $0.40 on every dollar I earn, so does Michelle. And we do it proudly because what I know is, is that this county has blessed me. And that I want to make sure that folks like George can get a scholarship to go to college. I want to make sure that a senior properly taken care of. I want to make sure that we're repairing roads and bridges and helping folks who need help and that our veterans are getting the disability rights that they have earned. I'm proud to contribute and to give back because I believe we're all in this together as Americans, as one American family. But apparently that's not how this man thinks. The thinks that's for suckers, I guess. But you know what, that's not how we built this country. We built this country by looking out for one another and believing in one another. And that's what Joe Biden believes. Joe Biden has got a plan to create 10 million good jobs in the energy sector, in the clean energy sector right here in America. And it's part of his plan to protect Florida from climate change and secure environmental justice, and he'll pay for it by rolling back Trump's tax cuts for billionaires. And Joe sees this not as a moment not as a chance to get back to where we were, but to finally make some of the long overdue changes so that our economy actually makes life a little easier for everybody. For the waitress trying to raise her kid on her own, for student figuring out how to pay for next semester's classes, for the ship worker who's worried about getting laid off, for the cancer survivor who's worried that her preexisting condition protections will be taken away. Let's talk about healthcare for a second because I know that George and I share something, we lost our mothers at a way too early age. Republicans love to say right before an election that they'll protect your preexisting conditions. Now listen, Joe and I actually protected them 10 years ago with the Affordable Care Act, which made sure that anybody with a preexisting condition could get health insurance. It protected everybody. It protected folks who already had health insurance. It protected folks who might have to buy health insurance in the future. Hispanics saw the biggest gains in coverage of anybody, almost 93% of Hispanic kids got covered, an all time high. And yet under this administration, Hispanic kids have lost coverage. And throughout this process, when we were getting folks healthcare, Republicans fought us every step of the way. They've tried to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, Obamacare more than 60 times. When they're asked about it, they say, well, look, we're going to have a great replacement. It's coming. It's going to be there in two weeks. It's been 10 years now. Every two weeks they say they've got a replacement and they haven't come up with nothing. They've never had a replacement. I promise you. I've asked. I asked back when I was president. I said, show me your replacement and we can talk. Nothing anda, zero, zilch, goose egg. The reason they don't show you their plan to actually provide people protections when it comes to preexisting conditions because they don't have one and they never have. And that's just a fact. And instead of just fessing up that they don't want people to have health insurance, they've attacked the Affordable Care Act at every turn. They've drove up costs. They're driving up the uninsured. Now they're trying to get the Supreme Court to take away your healthcare as we speak in the middle of a pandemic with nothing but empty promises to take its place. Why would you want to take people's health insurance just at the very- … want to take people's health insurance just at the very moment when people need health insurance the most. What's the rationale on that? And think about what that would do to families right here. Miami-Dade has the highest enrollment of any county in Florida. Florida has the highest enrollment of any state in America. Nobody has a bigger stake in making sure those protections stay in place than folks right here in Florida. Just this week, Trump flat-out said, "We hope the Supreme Court takes your health insurance away." Said it out loud. Miami, Joe and Kamala will protect your healthcare. They will expand Medicare. They will sign up more folks on Medicaid, and make insurance more affordable for everybody. That's what they stand for. And that's what you've got to get out there and vote. Joe understands says that the first job of a president is to keep us safe from all threats: domestic, foreign, and microscopic. When the daily intelligence briefings are flashing warning lights about a virus, the president can't be AWOL. When Russia puts bounties on the heads of our brave soldiers in Afghanistan, the commander in chief can't be MIA. He can't be somebody who doesn't read the briefings. Joe Biden would never call the men and women of our military suckers and losers. He knows those troops are somebody's husband, somebody's wife, somebody's kid, somebody's . Right now that's run by a billionaire who's gutted the rules designed to protect students from getting ripped off by for-profit colleges, and stiff-arm students looking for loan relief in the middle of an economic collapse. The person who's running Medicaid right now is not trying to sign up more people for Medicaid to help them out. They're trying to kick them off of Medicaid. So then they've got to fend for themselves at the very moment that they need protection the most. Here's the thing. When Joe and Kamala are in charge, they're not going to surround themselves with hacks and lobbyists. They're going to surround themselves with qualified public servants who actually care about looking for you. Who are going to work hard to make sure that you've got a job that pays a living wage. And that your family is protected. And your health is protected. And you've got some security. And that we're protecting our planet. And that, more than anything, is what separates them from their opponents. They actually care about every American. Even the ones who aren't going to be voting for them. They're going to be in the fight on your behalf every single day. They care about you, and they care about our democracy. Deeply. They believe that in a democracy, the right to vote is sacred. We shouldn't be making it harder for people to vote. We shouldn't ask people to wait 10 hours to vote standing in line. We should be making it easy for everybody to cast their ballot. Joe and Kamala believe that no one, especially the president, is above the law. They understand that protest isn't un-American. Our country was founded on protest against injustice. They understand we don't threaten to throw political opponents in jail, just because we disagree with them. We don't call them un-American just because they're of another political party. Joe and Kamala understand that our government works together to solve big problems like pandemic. It depends on more than just photo opps. It depends on more than just spin or making stuff up. It depends on a fidelity to science and logic and facts. These are not Republican or Democratic values, Florida. These are American values. This is what we learned from our parents and our grandparents. They're not black or white or Hispanic or Asian or Native American values. They're American values. And we have to reclaim that. We can't just say, "Oh, it's fine if a president lies 50 times a day." No! My mother- My mother would whoop me if I was lying once a day, once a week. These are American values that we have to reclaim. And in order to do that, we are going to have to turn out like never before. We have to leave no doubt, Florida. We can't afford to be complacent. We can't afford to sit back and wait for somebody else to do it. It's on us. In this election, at this moment, we all have to do our part. And I understand why there are Americans who get frustrated by government, who sometimes feel that it doesn't make enough of a difference. And I'm the first one to admit government's not going to solve every problem. Government is never going to be perfect. And in a country that right now is somewhat divided, there are going to be times where we don't get everything we want even when we have folks in power that support what we care about. I've got experience first firsthand watching how Republicans in Congress abused the rules to make it easy for special interests to stop progress. But just, because government's not perfect, it doesn't mean we can't make it better. And we sure can stop it getting worse. A President by himself can't solve every challenge of the global economy, but if we elect a House and the Senate and a State House and a State Senate that are focused working people and getting you the help you need, it can make a difference and put millions of people back to work. A President by himself can't eliminate all racial bias in our criminal justice system, but if we elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris and also, at the local level, district attorneys and state's attorneys and sheriffs that are focused on equality and justice, we can make things better. That what voting is about, not making things perfect, but making things better, putting us on track, getting the ball rolling so that we can look back years from now and say, "You know what? That was the moment when we turned the corner. That was the time when we started bringing the country together. That was when we, once again, began to move together to create a better future for our children, our grandchildren." But it's got to start now. Voting is about using the power we have and pulling it together to get a government that's more concerned, more responsive, more focused on you. And if we don't get a hundred percent, we just get 50% of what we want, then that's good. And then we keep on going, we vote some more, and we get more done. And that's how progress is made. And what I hear folks say, "Well, voting doesn't make a difference because I voted last time and, look." Listen. We've never come close to seeing what it would be like if everybody actually voted. In 2008, that was the highest vote totals in recent elections, in modern presidential era. When I was running, we had the highest voting rates that we've seen. You know how many people out of the eligible folks who could vote voted? 61%. That was the highest. That means 39% of folks who were eligible to vote did not vote. Imagine if 65% of people voted. Imagine if 70% of people voted. Because the folks who tend not to vote, a lot of times, it's black folks and brown folks and poor folks and young folks and women. So imagine if all those folks actually turned out to vote and imagine January 20th, when we swear in a President and a Vice President who have a plan to get us out of this mess, who believe in science, who've got a plan to protect this planet for our kids, who care about working Americans, who are thinking about you. A President and a Vice President who believe in racial equality and are willing to do the work to bring us closer together, to bring us closer to the ideal where no matter what you look like, or where you come from, or who you love, or how much money you got, you can still make it if you try and you still get justice before the law. All that is possible. All that's within our reach. For all the times over the last four years that we've seen our worst impulses revealed, we've also seen what's best in our country. People asked me, they said, "How've you been putting up with watching your successor to do all this stuff?" I say. "Yeah, it can be frustrating. I don't watch a lot of TV." But you know what I tell people is what I've also seen is folks of every age and background pack city centers and airports and town squares, just so that families wouldn't be separated, or just so another classroom wouldn't get shot up, or just so we can make sure our kids don't grow up in an uninhabitable planet. We've seen amazing essential workers and healthcare workers risk their lives day in and day out to help somebody, to save somebody else's loved ones. We've seen people contribute and volunteer for those who are especially having a difficult time right now. We've seen Americans of all races joining together to declare in the face of injustice and brutality that black lives matter. No more, but no less to proclaim that no child in this country should ever feel the continuing stain of racism. We see young people like George, who introduced me, ask us, "Do we not breathe the same air? Do we not bleed the same blood? Do we not deserve safety, belonging, and matter? That's true in Miami and it's true all across the country. I know this has been a tough and sometimes discouraging time, but I'm here to report to you, America is a good and decent place. We've just seen so much noise and nonsense, sometimes it's hard for us to remember. But I've been all across this country. I've been all across this state. There are a lot of good people here. There are a lot of folks who share the values of looking out for one another and doing right by one another. We've just got to make sure that our politics were flexible. And we do that by voting. Miami, I'm asking you to remember what this country can be. I'm asking you to believe in Joe's ability and Kamala's ability to lead this country out of these dark times and helps us build it back better. We can't abandon the Americans who are hurting right now. We can't abandon the kids who aren't getting the education they need right now. We can't abandon those protestors who inspired us this summer. We've got to channel their activism into action. We can't just talk. We can't just imagine a better future. We've got to go up there and fight for it. We've got to out hustle the other side. We've got to vote like never before and we've got to leave no doubt. So make a plan right now for how you're going to get involved to vote. Do it as early as you can. Tell your family and friends how they can vote, too. Don't stop with Joe and Kamala. Make sure you vote all the way down the ticket. And if we pour all our efforts into these ten days, if we vote up and down the ticket like never before, we will elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. And we will leave no doubt about what this country we love stands for and what we believe in and who we are as a people. So let's get to work, Florida. Let's bring this home. I love you, Miami. Honk if you're fired up. Honk if you're ready to go. Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Let's make this happen. Thank you, everybody. God bless. (Singing). I have participated in many rallies in my life. This is clearly the most unusual. So, I want to thank everybody for being here for this limited audience event. It means a lot to me, and I know it means a lot to the Vice President. And let me begin by wishing the President and the First Lady a full and speedy recovery from the COVID-19 illness that they are now dealing with. And of course, we wish the same for my colleagues in the Congress, as well as the many, many millions of Americans who are struggling with this terrible disease. What the last few days have told us is, if there was ever any doubts, it should now be clear that no one, no one, is safe from this pandemic. It doesn't matter if you are a frontline worker in a hospital. And I want to take a moment to thank all of the doctors and the nurses and the medical personnel who have put their lives on the line to protect all of us. And it doesn't matter if you are an essential worker in a supermarket, if you are a packing house worker, if you are a bus driver, and it doesn't matter if you are the President of the United States. Each and every one of us is vulnerable, and we will remain vulnerable until there is a vaccine or a perfected cure. That is the reality, and there is no way to get away from that. There are some who say that we have to make a choice between having a strong economy and protecting the American people from this terrible disease. I disagree. The truth is, we will never have a strong economy so long as this pandemic continues to surge as it is today. We will never have a strong economy if people are afraid to go to work, afraid to go to school, afraid to shop, or afraid to have dinner at a restaurant, or afraid to do all of the things that we normally do. We will never have a strong economy unless we get this pandemic under control. Is the solution to this crisis to shut down the economy and lock everybody in their homes? No, it is not. We can keep our country moving forward if we do so in a way that is disciplined, not dangerous, that is responsible, not reckless. Now, I want to ask you and the American people some very simple questions. Which candidate for President has shown that he will be disciplined, that he will be responsible in dealing with this pandemic? Which candidate for President has made it clear that he will develop policies based on the advice of the best scientists in our country and the world? Which candidate for President will develop national protocols and guidelines and model the behaviors we all need to engage in to keep our families, our neighbors, and ourselves safe? Which candidate has the temperament to see us through this difficult crisis? Let me repeat that point. Which candidate has the temperament to see us through this difficult crisis? I don't think there is any doubt that the answer to those questions is that in the worst public health crisis of the last 100 years, we need Joe Biden as our president. Now, let me say a word about the economy. Let me be blunt, tell you the way it is. And that is that the working class of this country is in more desperation today than at any time since the Great Depression of the 1930s. That is a fact. It is a sad fact, but that is the truth. Tens of millions of our fellow citizens have lost their jobs as a result of this pandemic. They have lost their incomes. They have lost their health insurance. They have depleted their life savings. They cannot afford to pay their rent or their mortgages. And in too many cases, in the richest country on Earth, they cannot afford to put food on the table for their kids. Today, the percentage of Americans who lack employment is at the highest level in 45 years, while tens of millions of Americans who do have jobs are often working part-time for starvation wages. And as bad as the economy is in general, it is far worse for the African American and Latino communities. During this pandemic, nearly 60% of Latino families and 55% of African-American families have either experienced a job loss or a pay cut. How devastating is that? Meanwhile, and it is important to make this point because it is not made often enough, while the working class of this country is being devastated as a result of the pandemic, not everybody in America is hurting. The truth is that at a time of massive income and wealth inequality, over the last six months, that situation has gotten- Last six months, that situation has gotten even more grotesque. In the last number of months, 643 billionaires, that's not a lot of people, have seen their wealth go up by $845 billion. And let me just say that again. While 30 million Americans have lost their jobs, while 12 million Americans have lost their health insurance, while 29 million Americans do not have enough food to eat, while 40 million of our people face eviction, 643 billionaires increased their wealth by $845 billion over the last six months alone. So, that is the state of the economy today. Simple truth is that the very, very rich are getting much, much richer while nearly everybody else is struggling or getting poorer. And let us be very clear, despite what you may have heard over the past four years, the economy has not been very good for the working class of this country. And sometimes we lose track of that, but here is the truth, you don't have over the last four years, and I'm not now just talking about the last six months, but you don't have a strong economy when half of our people are living paycheck to paycheck. Do you all know what living paycheck to paycheck is about? I grew up in a family that lived paycheck to paycheck. Joe Biden grew up in a family that lived paycheck to paycheck. Many of you are living paycheck to paycheck. If you got one. It was not a good economy for the last four years when 87 million Americans were uninsured or under-insured, couldn't get to a doctor when they were sick, and unbelievably and horrifically when 68,000 Americans were dying each year, because they could not go to the doctor when they got sick. Can you imagine that? Richest country in the history of the world, 68,000 of our people die each year, because they can't get to a doctor when they get sick, because they lack the money and don't have any health insurance. It is not and has not been a good economy when over 40 million workers were earning starvation wages of less than $15 an hour. And here, again, is the simple truth, nobody in America can make it on eight, or nine, or $10 an hour. And over the last four years, it has not been a good economy. When a half of older workers, and we don't talk about this enough, when half of older workers had no retirement savings. Imagine being 55, 60, 65, you don't got a nickel in the bank and now you're on retirement. And how do you do that with any shred of dignity? It is not a good economy when over half a million Americans are homeless! Half a million of our people are homeless, including many veterans who put their lives on the line to defend us. And as part of that housing crisis that we are experiencing some 18 million families are spending half of their incomes on housing or more! How do you take care of your basic needs if you're spending half of your income on housing. But I must tell you, over the last four years, it was again a great economy for the billionaire class and it has become even better for them during this horrific pandemic. My friends, we need an economy that works for all of us, not just the few. And it's not just in recent years, it's not just over the last four years. Here is something else that we don't talk about. Over the last 45 years, there has been a massive redistribution of wealth in America, but sadly, that redistribution has gone in the wrong direction. From the working class, from the middle class, from the poor to the very richest people in this country. Since 1990, while the top 1% saw their wealth go up by $22 trillion, you got that? Top 1% saw their wealth increase by $22 trillion, the bottom half of America saw their wealth actually go down. Today, the average worker in America, and this is really quite astounding when you consider the growth of technology and the explosion in productivity, the average American worker today is now making $34 a week less than he or she did 47 years ago after adjusting for inflation. Can you imagine that? Over a 47-year period, an explosion in technology, increase in worker productivity, and yet the average American is earning less than he or she did 47 years ago. What I understand, and I believe you understand, and the American people know is that we are all becoming more and more outraged with the corporate greed that we are seeing every single day. The American people are sick and tired of large, profitable corporations shutting down here in America and then moving to low wage countries all over the world. They are sick and tired of seeing CEOs now make 300 times more than their average employees. While they give themselves huge bonuses, they cut back on their health care benefits of their workers. The American people are sick and tired of that corporate greed. They are sick and tired all of us paying by far the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. While at the same time, the pharmaceutical industry makes 10. … the same time, the pharmaceutical industry makes tens of billions of dollars in profit, year after year after year. In my view, the American people understand that we can no longer sustain an economy which has more income and wealth inequality today than at any time since the 1920s. When three people own more wealth than the bottom half of this country; three people; that is not acceptable. Under Joe Biden and under a Democratic Congress, we're going to change all of that. Together, we are going to end a rigged tax code that allows billionaires to pay a lower tax rate, an effective tax rate, than nurses, teachers, and truck drivers. While at the same time, we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on earth. So together, what this campaign is about, and what we must do in the future, is bring our people together by the millions to create a government and an economy that works for all of us, not just the 1%. Now, it is no great secret that Joe Biden and I disagree on a number of issues. That's a fact. But there is also no question that the economic proposals that Joe Biden is supporting are strong, and will go a long, long way to improving life for working families. I want to take a minute to talk about those proposals. Because of everything that's going on in this crazy world today, I think there has not been enough focus on Joe's economic proposals. Again, they're not mine, but they are strong proposals. And I want you and the American people to know what they are. Joe Biden, you, and I know that it is not acceptable that tens of millions of Americans work at starvation wages. People cannot make it on nine, 10 bucks an hour. Joe knows that, you know that, I know that. That is why Joe Biden is going to help us raise that minimum wage to at least 15 bucks an hour. What Joe understands is that if you work 40 hours a week, you should not be living in poverty. Joe Biden also understands that it is absurd that women make 75 cents on the dollar compared to men. If you're a minority woman, that's even lower. That is why Joe is going to make sure that we have equal pay for equal work. Joe also knows that the path toward a stronger middle class is strengthening trade unions in America. Right now, all across this country, there are millions of workers who want to join unions. But because of the heavy-handed corporate tactics that now exist, it's impossible for them to do that. Joe and I and the United States Congress are going to go forward and make it easier for workers to join unions, engage in collective bargaining. Joe also understands that we have got to stop providing corporate welfare to companies that are throwing American workers out on the street and moving abroad. It's absolutely insane that we provide welfare to these guys. Then they say thank you and they shut down factories and plants in America. There's something else that Joe understands. And that is that in the midst of the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes, we need to create millions and millions of good-paying union jobs. The fastest way to do that is to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure; our roads, our bridges, our wastewater plants, our water systems; and to build millions of units of affordable housing. I'll tell you what else Joe understands. He understands that we have got to end the international embarrassment of the United States being the only major country on Earth not to guarantee paid medical and family leave. When a woman in America gives birth, she should not be forced to go back to work after one or two weeks. When a child gets sick, Mom or Dad should be able to stay home, take care of that kid, and not lose a day's pay. I want everybody to hear it because it's not been talked about enough. That is why Joe Biden has proposed at least 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave for working families. When we talk about babies and we talk about young children, we all know that our current childcare system is dysfunctional, and it is totally inadequate. Our children and their parents deserve high-quality, reliable, and affordable childcare. That is why Joe has proposed universal pre-K education for every three- and four-year-old child in this country. When we talk about having the best educated workforce in the world, Joe understands that we have got to make public colleges and universities tuition free for the working class of this country. And that we must substantially reduce student debt in America. And at a time of massive income wealth inequality, Joe Biden understands that we must- … Equality, Joe Biden understands that we must demand that the wealthiest people and the most profitable corporations in our country start paying their fair share of taxes. No more tax breaks for billionaires while half a million Americans sleep out on the street. No more tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas or shift their profits to the Cayman Islands. Joe also understands that one out of five Americans who walk into their doctor's office and gets a prescription, they cannot afford to fill that prescription because of the outrageous cost of prescription drugs in this country. And what Joe Biden knows and what I know is that if anybody is serious about healthcare reform, we have finally got to summon the guts to take on the greed of the pharmaceutical industry. During my campaign for the presidency I took a trip from the Midwest, a few miles into Canada to buy insulin for diabetics. And we've got millions of people who were dealing with diabetes and the need for insulin. We went 15 minutes away from Detroit, Michigan into Ontario, Canada. We bought the same damn insulin as sold in the United States for 1/10th the price that was charged in America, 1/10th the price. That is an outrage. And together, Joe knows, I know, and you know that we have to take on the collusion, the price-fixing and the greed of the pharmaceutical industry, so that Americans no longer pay the highest prices in the world for the medicine we need. Now, as many of you also know, the United States is the only major country on Earth not to guarantee healthcare to all people as a human, right. Meanwhile, despite paying almost twice as much per person for healthcare as the people of other countries, over 90 million Americans today are uninsured or under-insured. And unbelievably, over a half a million people go bankrupt every single year because they cannot afford to pay their medical bills. While Joe and disagree on the best path to get to universal coverage, his proposal will greatly expand access to healthcare and make it more affordable for tens of millions of people across this country. And here's an important point that has not been talked about enough during this campaign. He is going to lower the eligibility age for Medicare from 65 to 60, meaning millions of more people will be eligible for Medicare. He will expand Medicare to cover dental core, eye glasses and hearing AIDS. And he will substantially increase funding for community health centers to make sure that millions of Americans get the primary health care and the mental health care that they desperately need. Joe knows that when you talk about healthcare, you're talking about mental healthcare as well. And by the way, if the Democrats gain control of the Senate, you're looking at the chairman of the subcommittee on health. And trust me that the healthcare industry and the drug companies will understand a very new reality when that happens. Let me conclude by once again, thanking all of you for coming out today and for saying that in the wealthiest country, in the history of the world and I want everybody to remember that, sometimes we forget it. We're not a poor country. We are the wealthiest country, not only in the world, but in the history of the world. We need to create an economy that works for all of us. That works for our children. That works for our seniors. That works for the middle class, for the working class. We need to have a government and an economy that works for all, not just wealthy campaign contributors and the 1%. There is no excuse, none whatsoever, that in our country we have millions of workers today who are unemployed. We can put those workers back to work. There is no reason why over 90 million people lack health insurance or are under-insured. We can provide healthcare to all as a human right. There Is no reason why we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major on Earth. And a dysfunctional childcare system. If we love our country, we love our children and it's high time we had the best educational system in the entire world. Brothers and sisters, at this critical and unprecedented moment in American history, it is absolutely imperative that we stand together, black and white, Latino, Asian, American, Native American, gay, and straight. Those of us born in the United States, those of us who are immigrants. Let us stand together and elect Joe Biden as the next president of the United States. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Whoa, thank you so much. What a great turnout. Thank you St. Louis. (silence). And the band. Alderwoman Megan Green, union activist Sarah Katz, representative Rasheen Aldridge, Tashara Jones, and last, but certainly not least, Cori Bush. Let me kind of pick up where Cori left off and that is to say all of you remember Nelson Mandela. And Nelson Mandela was one of the great freedom of fighters of the 20th centuries he spent a lot of his life in hard labor in South Africa fighting apartheid. And what he said, he said, in his lifetime, he made a statement, which to me was extraordinarily profound and relevant to this moment. He said, "Everything seems impossible until it is done." You understand what I mean? Everything seems impossible until it is done. And what happens for a variety of reasons, and I don't know them all, but what happens is human beings end up accepting the status quo unnecessarily. We are told by Congress what our options are, we're told by the media what our options are, and sometimes we forget to take a hard look at what goes on around us and where we want to go as a nation and as a people What our campaign is about is asking people to take a hard look at America today, at the world today, and ask questions like, why are we where we are, where should we be going? And let me do what no other campaign will do, take a hard look at America today. In America, the richest country in the history of the world, you have three people owning more wealth than the bottom half of America. In other words, we have more income and wealth inequality in America today than any time in the last 100. You got the top 1% who over the last 30 years has seen a $21 trillion increase in their wealth, top 1% owning more wealth than the bottom 92% Now, you don't hear about that much in the media. That's not what is going to be talked about because those are the guys who own media, they own the Congress. Today in Missouri… Now am I saying Missouri, right? Or is it Missouri, Missouri? I know, it's a tough one. But here in Missouri and in my own state of Vermont, you got a lot of working people working two or three jobs. You've got workers who are worried that they can't afford to send their kids to college. You've got a half of the older workers in America, people put 55 or older. Do you know how much they have in the bank, saved for retirement? Nothing! Now, think about it. You're a 60 year old worker in the St. Louis or Kansas City. You work your whole life, you're worried about retirement. You got nothing in the bank. Maybe you'll have $15,000 a year social security, if they don't cut it. You're a working mommy in st Louis. Maybe you're a single mom. You're going to work today… And God bless the single moms in this country and how they survive. Don't know how they do it, but that mom, think of the mom, you're making 15 bucks an hour. Where are you going to find quality, affordable childcare for your kid? Virtually impossible. You're a young person coming from a working class family. You want to go to college, you want to go to a trade school, but you can't afford it. Your dreams being destroyed. Maybe you made it through college and you leave school 50, 80,000 bucks in debt. You went to graduate school, maybe you're a couple of hundred thousand dollars in debt. That is the reality. I grew up in a family, didn't have any money, lived paycheck to paycheck. I know a little bit about that and half of the American people in this richest country in the history of the world, half of our people today are living paycheck to paycheck. And if you are African American or Latino, then you got a whole bunch of additional hurdles that you've got to overcome. They got to deal with the racism that exists in the healthcare industry, the racism that exists in the financial sector, the racism that exists in education. So if you're black in St. Louis, if you're black all over America, the likelihood is, not always, but the likelihood is your kids are going to get an even worse education than white kids are going to get it. You've got all of that stuff out there. And what is our job today? It is not hard. It's to say that within a corrupt political system, where billionaires buy elections, our job is to reinvigorate democracy so we have one person, one vote, not billionaires buying elections. And that means, as Cori was just saying, it means to reinvigorate democracy, we need to activate our people. A lot of people in this country, and this is a sign of a serious problem, have given up on the political process. They're out there working long hours for low wages, they're worried about their kids, they don't think anybody in Washington cares about them. And you know what, that's not totally untrue. What our job is is to bring people into the political process so that we can create a government that works for working families, not just the 1%. Now, this is hard stuff. And again, getting back to what Mandela said, we're not supposed to be thinking about where we want to go. We're not supposed to be looking at countries around the world who have already made major gains, where we have… Give you an example. Question, how many major countries on earth do not guarantee healthcare to all people as a human right? Anyone know? All right, take a step back now. I'm going to end up off the stage here. How does that happen? I live 50 miles away from the Canadian border. In Canada for decades, every person, rich, poor, middle class, goes to any doctor they want, goes to any hospital they want. If you ended up in the hospital in Canada for a month, what is your bill when you leave the hospital? It is and by the way, in Canada, they spend half as much per capita on healthcare as we spend. You got it? We are spending $11,000, $11,000 for every man, woman and child by health care and yet, at the end of the day we got 87 million people uninsured or under insured. We have conservatively 30, and this is very conservative, but at least 30,000 people dying every year because they don't get to a doctor when they should. We got a half a million people going because of medically related debt. You know what that means? Think about it. Think about a system which says, you go to the doctor, you're sick, you're diagnosed with cancer, you got enough to worry about, you're fighting for your life. And yet, now you're going to have to fight to prevent financial ruin and many people do not. To go bankrupt because you are dealing with cancer or heart disease should not be happening in America. And just look at the insanity dealing with this Coronavirus, this very serious problem that we're dealing with in America, dealing with all over the world. Think about the insanity of a system where today somebody wakes up and maybe they think they have the symptoms of a Coronavirus, yet they cannot afford to go to a doctor. What does that mean? So they're going to go to work and make a serious epidemic even worse. We believe that healthcare is a human right for every man, woman, and child. And we are prepared, uniquely in this campaign to take on a healthcare industry that last year made $100 billion in profits. We are uniquely prepared to take on a pharmaceutical industry, which in some cases charges us 10 times more for the same exact drug that's sold abroad. Give you an example of the . I want to get back to this Coronavirus, which is on many people's minds. Trump's people were saying just a little while ago, that, yeah, we're working on a vaccine. Hopefully, they are. But, this is how crazy it is. We couldn't guarantee that when that vaccine is developed, they couldn't guarantee that people would be able to afford it. This is how sick this system is. Let me tell you, if elected president, everybody in this country will get that vaccine, absolutely free. Is that a radical statement? That is the most obvious statement that anybody can make, but you carry that a little bit step further. Last year, I went from Detroit to Windsor, Ontario to buy insulin for people who are diabetics. I went with a bus load of people that were dealing with diabetes. And as you know, diabetes, very serious problem. Do you know what the differential in price in Canada as opposed to the United States was for insulin, the same exact product? 10 to 1. We will tell the pharmaceutical industry, they're no longer going to charge our people 10 times more than others and we are prepared to manufacture that damn product to sell it to everybody at a price that is competitive. Right now, I just learned a few moments ago, that in New York state, the government there is doing the right thing. They are manufacturing disinfectant for hand washing to make sure that everybody will be able to get their Purell or whatever they need and what they're saying is, they are telling the manufacturers today to stop the price gouging and they're manufacturing it. And we are prepared to say that to the pharmaceutical industry. Stop ripping off the American people. We finally need a government that represents working people in the middle class, not just large multinational corporations. That's what this campaign is about. Now, a lot of the media talks about, electability, which is an important issue. Everybody in this room, I assume, wants to see Donald Trump defeated. And the truth is that every American should want to see Donald Trump defeated because he is the most dangerous president in the modern history of this country. We cannot continue to have a president, you just can't have somebody in the White House who lies all of the time. Look, we can have differences of opinion on policy, but if you asked somebody who was a pathological liar, then nobody believes what you say, which is a very dangerous situation when you're president of the United States. We cannot continue to have a president who runs a corrupt administration. And I would hope, I would truly hope that some conservatives take a look at this. Look, we disagree on policy, that's fine, but you can't have a president who has apparently never read the constitution of the United States of America. A president who does not understand the separation of powers in America. We are not an autocratic society. We're a democratic society. The founders of the constitution divided up power, which was the right thing to do. You can have a president who calls the media, enemy of the people. You can't have a president who attacks the judiciary, who attacks the Congress. Now, Donald Trump may not understand democracy, but he's got to learn about what democracy is about in November when we defeat him. And people talk a lot about unity, bringing people together, and that's right. Let me tell you how we're going to bring people together. We're going to bring people together around an agenda that works for all of us, not just wealthy campaign contributors. We're going to bring people together by raising the federal minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour. We're going to bring people together by fighting for equal pay for equal work. We're going to bring people together by making it easier for workers to join unions, not harder. We're going to bring people together by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, creating millions of good paying jobs. We're going to bring people together because you know and I know that when we have same priorities in America, we put education at the very top of that list. That means that all of our children, black and white and Latino, Native American, Asian American are entitled to a high quality education. That is why we're going to triple funding for low-income Title 1 schools. … in the history of the world. We got to school buildings all across this country that are crumbling. Kids can't even drink the water in some school buildings. We have teachers who have been great teachers for 10, 20 years, they're leaving the profession because they can't make a living. They're tired of taking money out of their own pockets to buy school supplies. All of that, when we know there is nothing more important than educating our kids for the future of this country. What's important is not giving tax breaks to billionaires, it's making sure that teachers receive adequate compensation. That is why we believe that instead of giving tax breaks to the billionaires and spending more than the next 11 countries on the military, we will pay our teachers at least $60, 000 a year. I'll tell you what else, when you talk about education, we have got to start with the premise that all of our people, not just young people, but all of our people, regardless of their income, are entitled as human beings in this country to get all of the education they need and that they want. Does anyone think that's a radical idea? 100, 150 years ago, brave people said that they wanted a system in which all kids could get at least that elementary school education, a high school education, free of charge. That was a major step forward a hundred years ago, but right now with a world changing, with technology changing, our position must be that we will make public colleges and universities tuition free. And if there are young people that are good with their hands, don't want to go to college, we'll make trade schools tuition free. Again, thinking outside of the box, if we could give tax breaks to billionaires, if 12 years ago we could bail out the crooks on Wall Street, we can cancel all student debt in America. Through a modest tax on Wall Street speculation and when we think about issues that face our country, unlike Donald Trump, we understand that climate change is not a hoax, but an existential threat to this country and to the world. Whether it relates to the corona virus or whether it relates to climate change, we believe in science. We believe that the time is now to tell the fossil fuel industry that they cannot continue to destroy this planet and that we will transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy. We will do that under the principles of a Green New Deal, which will create up to 20 million good paying jobs. So put it all together, put it all together. Think about a new America in which we have a government that works for all, not just the wealthy and not just the campaign contributors. What does it mean? It means that in the wealthiest country in the history of the world where there's so much work to be done, we childcare workers, we need teachers, we need more healthcare providers. We need to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. We need to transform our energy system. We have an enormous amount of work to be done. It is not radical to say that all of those workers earn living wages, that all of our people get the education they need regardless of their income. Not radical. That the United States do what every major country on earth is doing, guarantee healthcare to all as a right. That we do what the scientists are telling us we should do, aggressively combat climate change. What is so radical and extreme about those ideas? Not only are they not radical and extreme, they are exactly what the American people want. Go out on the street corners. That's our agenda, this is what the American people want. I'll tell you what Trump and his friends want, they want more tax breaks for billionaires and they want to cut social security, Medicare and Medicaid. That is a radical agenda. It is a radical agenda to suggest that we keep a situation going where a half a million people are homeless tonight. That's radical. Our job is to think outside of the box. Our job is also to understand. I know in Missouri you have dealt with this issue, that we need fundamental reforms the way broken and racist criminal justice system. Again, think outside of the box. Ask yourself a simple question. Wealthiest country on earth, why do we have more people in jail, disproportionally African American, Latino, and Native American, than any other country on earth including China, a communist, authoritarian nation, four times our size. We have more people in jail today than China does. How does it happen? Let's think about it. How does it happen again? We don't talk about these issues. Today as we speak there are 400,000 people in jail who have not been convicted of anything. Anyone know why that's so? How do you get end up in jail if you're not convicted? Okay, good. All right. This is why you are arrested, maybe you're guilty, maybe you're not, you're in jail. You cannot afford the $500 bucks that you need for bail, you're poor. So you stay in jail, you may have to negotiate a plea bargain, which gives you a criminal record. Maybe you're innocent, but you can't get out of jail. You don't have a decent lawyer because you can't afford a decent lawyer and the legal system is not providing you with a decent lawyer. 400,000 people in jail today not having been convicted of anything. Then you have a situation in America today where people are making money, locking up fellow Americans. Do we really think we should incentivize large corporations to lock up more and more people to make more and more money? That's why we're going to end private prisons and detention centers in America. We understand. We understand that if kids fall through the cracks, if there's a kid in the St. Louis or Burlington, Vermont today who's dropping out of high school as a sophomore or junior in high school, kid has no education, kid has no job training, there is a strong likelihood that that kid is going to get into trouble or do self-destructive things. What we believe in is investing in our young people, making sure they don't fall through the cracks, not that hard to do. So we make sure that our kids have decent jobs, decent job training, good education so they can go out into the world, make a living. Rather than investing in jobs and education, what we're doing now is investing in jails and incarceration, we're going to turn that around. I'll tell you what else we're going to do. We are going to end the very destructive war on drugs. Turns out that through executive order, President of the United States can legalize the marijuana in every state in this country. That's what I will do. It also means that we've got to work aggressively to expunge the records of those arrested. All over America no matter what people's political point of view may be, people are horrified by the level of gun violence in America. My promise to you is that our administration will bring forth the strongest gun safety legislation ever proposed in the United States. We will fight for universal background checks. People who have violent histories should not own guns, including domestic violence. We're going to eliminate the gun show loophole and we're going to end the sale and distribution of assault weapons in this country. As a US Senator, I hear a lot of speeches on the floor of the Senate from conservative Republicans who tell us they believe in small government and getting the government off the backs of the American people. I say to those hypocrites, if you believe in getting the government off the backs of the American people, please understand that it is women who have a right to control their own bodies, not the government. My promise to you is that I will never nominate anybody to the Supreme Court or any federal court who is not 100% pro Roe v. Wade. Trump and his friends want to cut funding for Planned Parenthood. Well, we've got some bad news for them because we're going to substantially increase funding for Planned Parenthood. So here we are, one day before the Missouri primary, and as Cori Bush said a moment ago, this is an historical time. People don't realize it, but this is an historic moment and it seems to me there are two broad issues that are on the minds of Democrats, Independents and some Republicans. Number one, which campaign is best able to defeat Donald Trump? Let me say without any hesitancy, any hesitancy, our campaign together is the campaign. Now why is that? Why is that? I'm not trying to be self-serving here, I'm trying to be thinking objectively, all right? I'm serious, in order to defeat Trump, who will be a very formidable opponent, in order to defeat Trump, we need the largest voter turnout in history. That is just a fact and here is another fact. The other fact is that our campaign is the campaign of energy and excitement. To defeat Trump, we need to bring what we call nontraditional voters into the political process. Now, I'm not happy about the reality, nor should you, that in our country today, we have one of the lowest voter turnout rates of any major country on earth. It's very low and I want to change that, but right now that is where we are at. Now we need to attract people who often do not vote into the political process if we're going to beat Trump, that's just a simple political reality. Young people in America are today the most progressive young generation in the history of this country. Now, that is the good news, that the great news, we should all be proud about that. Let me tell you the bad news, to be honest with you, young people vote in much lower rates than older people. All right? That is the fact. So I hope all of the old people- All right, that is the facts. I hope all of the old people vote. That's great, but I want young people to be voting at the same rates. Now every poll, and polls, you can take them for whatever they're worth. Sometimes they're right, sometimes they're not. But what every poll suggests and whatever election suggests, we are overwhelmingly winning young people's votes. Our campaign is the campaign that in the general election can bring millions of young people to the polls, which will not only impact the presidential election, it will impact Senate- On this issue, Joe Biden is a friend of mine, Joe and I have known each other for many years. What Joe has said, he will support me if I win the nomination. I have said I will support him because we want to be Trump, that goes without saying. But here is my point, if you are talking to working-class people all over this country, who is able, better able, to win their support? Joe Biden voted for the war in Iraq. I voted against the war in Iraq. Joe Biden voted for the Wall Street bailout. I helped lead the effort against the Wall Street bailout. Joe voted for disastrous trade agreements, which have been horrific for the Midwest. Agreements like NAFTA and PNTR with China. I helped lead the effort against those terrible trade agreements. Over the years, for a variety of reasons, Joe Biden has been on the floor of the Senate talking about the need to cut Social Security benefits. I have been leading the fight to expand Social Security benefits. My point here is not to criticized Biden. My point here is to ask you to think that in a general election, which candidate can generate the enthusiasm and the excitement and the voter turnout we need? If you want to defeat Trump, which all Democrats do, a majority of Independents and some Republicans do, we are that campaign. But second of all, what we also understand is that while it is absolutely imperative that we beat Trump, we've got to do more than that. You've got to transform this country so that we have an economy that works for you and you and you, not just wealthy campaign contributors. A government which says that what we need is a multiracial, multi-generational working-class movement of people coming together for justice. A movement that says not only we're you going to reform a broken and racist criminal justice system, we're going to reform a broken and racist immigration system. We do not believe in the demonization of immigrants. We believe in comprehensive immigration reform and a path towards citizenship. What this campaign is about is bringing the American people together, black and white and Latino, native American, Asian American, gay and straight. Bring people together. End the hatred and the divisiveness which Trump is promulgating. It is about a campaign which not only defeats Trump, but tells Wall Street and the insurance industry and the drug companies and the fossil fuel industry and the prison industrial complex and the military industrial complex and the entire 1% that we will have a nation that works for all of us. We're not going to leave tens and tens of millions of people behind. We're not going to have veterans sleeping out on the street. We're not going to have kids with inadequate education. We're not going to have older people unable to survive on inadequate Social Security benefits. That instead of denying the reality of climate change, we are going to lead the world in transforming our energy system. Tomorrow, there is a very important primary here in Missouri. I hope all of you will come out. I'm here today to respectfully ask for your support. I am here to ask you to bring out your friends and family. Let's have one of the largest voter turnouts in the history of the Missouri primary. Let's go forward tomorrow. Let's win the primary. Let's win the nomination. Let's defeat Trump. Let's transform this country. Thank you, St. Louis. (silence) Hello, Iowa. Hello, Polk County. Hello, De Moines. Back at the state fair. God love you all. Thank you for being out here today. Folks, I want to thank Ross. Thanks for that introduction. Ross, my heart goes out to you. It really is. I know it's hard, but you've been turning loss into purpose, saving lives. People who in fact ask me about my circumstances in the past said the best way to get through it is with purpose, find purpose. And you've done that. And Governor Tom and Christie Vilsack, my best buddies. Thank you, thank you, thank you for all you've done for me before, now, and God willing after. Jill and I will always be grateful, grateful for your support and your friendship. And folks, Cindy Axly, God loved her. And Amy Finkenhower, Abby Finkenhower. I tell you what, you guys are the single best Congress persons I've campaigned with. You need leaders like you right now. We need more of you. We need more. We've got to elect them both. And by the way, we need Readon in the Second District and J.D. in the Fourth District. It's time we can change things a little bit here. Right? Time to change it. I tell you what, and how about Theresa? I'll tell you what, you have no idea how much you're going to make my night when you win. You have no idea. And how you're going to make everybody else's night. You are as they say back in Scranton, you're the real deal, kid. You're the real deal. And you've never forgotten where you came from. And the I'm confident about is even going to Washington as a U.S. Senator, you're not going to forget where you came from and who you are. Your values are baked in. They're Iowa values. They're American values. You value honor, decency, respect, and dignity. You know they all matter. They matter a lot. That's who we are. And as we saw in the debate, where a farmer's daughter knows a breakeven point for a price of corn, crops. You think that'd be fairly basic. That's like my not knowing where the Delaware River was back home. Folks, but there's something else. Theresa and I both lost our first spouses. We've both been single parents with young kids. We both found a way back from broken places. And we know that's why you should elect this woman, Theresa, to the United States Senate. She sees, she understands, she believes. When she talks to you, when you talk to her, you know, and I'm not just saying this, you know she understands, she gets it. Just like our good friend Tom Harkin was your Senator. Teresa will be your Senator for Iowa. Not like her opponent, who's Donald Trump's Senator for Donald Trump. Folks, only four days left. Millions of Americans are already voting. Millions more are going to vote by late Tuesday night. I believe, when you use your power, the power of a vote, we're going to change the course of the country and quite frankly the world. Right here in Iowa with all of you in the final days. Please keep your sense of empowerment. Keep your sense of optimism of what we can do together, because you know we can do anything. You know how I know how hard it is. More than 200, and now I think it's up to 30,000 people have died, Americans dead, because COVID-19. Nearly 1,700 dead right here in Iowa. Iowa hit a record number of daily cases yesterday. It was over 2,300, and a record number of hospitalizations, more than 600. We've now hit nine million cases nationwide, a tragic milestone. And millions of people are out of work, on the edge, and they can't see the light. They don't know. It just looks dark right now for them. 82,000 Iowa jobs lost in this pandemic and still they've not come back. 70,000 jobs lost in Iowa since Donald Trump became President. Here at the fairgrounds, the Iowa State Fair canceled for the first time since World War Two, and Donald Trump has given up. The White House Chief of Staff said it out loud last week. He said, "We're not going to control the pandemic. We're not going to control the pandemic." In the debate last week with Donald Trump, he said, "We're rounding the corner. It's going away." And only he could say, "We're learning to live with it." Well, maybe you remember what I told him, "We're not learning to live with it. We're having to learn to die with it because of you." Donald Trump has waved the white flag. He surrendered to this virus. But the American people don't give up. Remember what he said when he did that interview, he said, although he knew about the crisis, he knew how bad it was back in January, the end of January, he decided not to tell the people, because he worried there would panic. Well, guess what? We don't panic. He panicked. And he misrepresented to us. Imagine if you had told us in January how dangerous this was and took action. It's estimated there would be over 130,000 people still alive. By the way, we don't cower. Nor do I and never will we. Unlike Donald Trump, we will not surrender to this virus. I'm going to put in place a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly, which I laid out back in March, bringing the country together around testing, tracing, masking. It's estimated by the leading doctors in America that if you just wore those masks for the next between now and the end of the year, we would save, just putting this mask on, we'd saved 100,000 lives. It's expected that 200,000 more lives will pass between having the end of the year. Dr. Fauci called last week for a mask mandate. This isn't a political statement. It's patriotic duty, for God's sake. But still, Donald Trump refuses to listen to science. He politicizes the race for a vaccine instead of planning for its safe and equitable and free distribution. He refused to provide schools and small businesses the resources and national standards where they can open safely and stay open. Well, I'm going to bring together Republicans and Democrats to deliver economic relief to working families and school … … together Republicans and Democrats to deliver economic relief to working families and schools and businesses. The Congress has already passed this legislation. It's sitting there, but he refused, he spent all his time this summer in his golf course bunkers or down in the white house bunkers, think about it. I've been around for a while, I bet even Senator Grassley would have to acknowledge that I don't ever remember any President in a crisis where there's a disagreement in the house and the Senate between Democrats and Republicans, didn't even try to bring them together to deal with this. The house back in May passed the Heroes Act, which would allow businesses and schools to open safely because it costs money, you need sanitation, you need ventilation, you need masking, you need distancing, you need separators. It all costs money, but it's sad, one in six businesses are now out of business, because he won't act. I've said before, I'm not going to shut down the economy, I'm going to shut down the virus. Even before the virus Donald Trump had already blown it, he inherited a strong economy from Barack and me, well like everything else he inherited, he squandered it. He squandered it, frankly. I've dealt with guys like Trump my whole life, so have you. Guys who think because they have a lot more money that they're better than you, look down on you. I know, I acknowledge I got a little bit of a chip on my shoulder coming from an Irish Catholic neighborhood where it wasn't viewed as that being such a great thing. When I read something about how if I'm elected President, I'm going to be the first non-Ivy league person to occupy the white house in a long time. Well guess what? Like somehow, I didn't belong if I didn't go to the Ivy league. Look, I'll say it about time, it's about time that a guy or woman or graduate from a state university is able to sit in the oval office. Because if I'm sitting there, you will be too, you know who really built this country? It wasn't Wall Street, it wasn't CEO's, it was hard working folks like all of you who built the middle class and unions helped build the middle class. We know how we can build a back and build it back better with an economy that rewards work for a change, not wealth. We can do it without raising the penny tax on the middle class. I guarantee you, give you my word as a Biden no one making less than $400,000 year will see a penny in their taxes raised, no one, but I tell you what, it's about time. The wealthiest people in America, the billionaires, the trillionaires, the multi-billionaires and the biggest corporations start paying their fair share. 91 major corporations out of the Fortune 500 didn't pay a penny in tax last year, that's tens of billions of dollars. They're going to pay their fair share. Why should a firefighter, an educator, a nurse, a cop pay a higher tax rate, which you do than a major multi-billion dollar corporation. Why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump who paid $750? You want to know everything I don't like about Trump? Let me tell you, I could capture it in one answer he gave. He was asked last time out about paying so little taxes, allegedly being a billionaire, know what he said? He says, "Because I'm smarter, I know how to game the system." But he ain't going to be gaming the system anymore in the Biden administration, they're going to start paying. And we're going to deliver tax relief for working families, the middle class to help you buy your first home, pay for healthcare premiums or childcare or care for an aging loved one, or being able to pay off your student debt for God's sake. Look, where I come from it's just about being fair. We're not asking anybody to do any more than anybody else just be fair, decent. Trump got a Supreme Court Justice for overwhelming reason, by the way, never before has there ever been a hearing on a Supreme Court Justice once an election began. That's never occurred, but you got his justice for one simple reason to destroy the Affordable Care Act. He'd been trying since the day he got elected, and if they get their way, $100 million people will lose protection for pre-existing conditions, including 1.3 million Iowans will lose it. Complications of COVID-19 are going to become the next preexisting condition. Allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, delay your coverage and a lot of young people don't realize this, but before Obamacare insurance companies charged women more for the same healthcare they charge men because they could, that'll end. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege, I think it's a right. We all get out and vote. And by the way, they're going to court in 10 days, 10 days, as he said to wipe it all out, end it, all of it. Well, I'll restore the Affordable Care Act and I'll strengthen and build on it, so you can keep your private insurance if you like it, or choose a Medicare like public option. We're going to increase subsidies for lower premiums, deductibles, out-of-pocket expenses, surprise billing. As Theresa said, this time, we are going to make sure Medicare can negotiate with the drug companies for prices reducing them by 60%. I promise you we'll get that done. We're going to make sure we keep protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Remember what he said when he talked about the people who were dying and not dying, he said, "Virtually," this is a quote from Trump, "virtually nobody's dying, except for people over 65 with heart conditions," like they're disposable. It doesn't matter with this guy. No, I'm not joking. Think about it, think about it. And then when he was told for the first time like we did today, 1,000 deaths a day, remember what his comment was? He said, "It is what it is." Well it is what it is because he is who he is, that's why it is what it is. These guys are something else, man. And meanwhile, the actuary at the Social Security Department says if Donald Trump gets what he's saying, he said, "You reelect me I'm going to change social security." The actuary says, "If the change occurs that he is promoting, it will bankrupt social security by 2023." Go home and tell your parents or grandparents that, that's a fact. Theresa said I'll protect social, security, Medicare, Medicaid. And let's not forget how Donald Trump weak and chaotic China trade policy has cost farmers and manufacturing so badly. Agricultural exports to China during the Trump years have been 40% lower than during the Obama Biden second term. On his watch and this really bugs me, on his watch ethanol margins have tanked and Iowa's manufacturing facilities are idle and even closing. He even says, I love this quote from him. He says, because of his bailouts, "Our farmers do better now than when they actually had a farm." I'm going to read that again. "Our farmers are actually doing better now than when they actually had a farm." Where's this guy from? Who does he think he is? Look, I'll do what he's been unable to do, I'll mobilize a true international effort to stop China's abuses so we can strengthen manufacturing and farming in Iowa and across the country. I'm going to hold China accountable, which he hasn't from the pandemic on. Folks. But there's nothing worse in my view than the way he has spoken about those who served in uniform. He called them losers and suckers. My son, Beau, many of you knew volunteered to serve a year in Iraq, gave up the Attorney General's job to do it. Won the bronze star, the Conspicuous Service Metal and other awards, he was neither a loser or a sucker, he was a Patriot. And Theresa, so is your son Dane, who was in the army, he's a Patriot like all of your sons, daughters, and all of those of you who have served. It's no wonder that the six top generals in the President's administration left and said, "He does not deserve to be commander in chief," his own generals in his own administration. No President has ever had that happen, none. And that's why Special Forces Commander, Stanley McChrystal, general and the head of the Navy Seals, Admiral Craven, along with 20 other four star generals endorsed me saying they'd be proud to have me as commander in chief. A sitting President. And that's why the Military Times quotes more troops would vote for Biden then Trump. Folks, it's not about me, it's about him. That's why we have to support our military. You vote for me, you're voting for them. And while Donald Trump fails to condemn White supremacy … And while Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy, we can vote to deliver racial justice. A season of protest has broken out all across America. And by the way, legitimate protesting is not burning or looting. Violence can never be tolerated and it won't. But those protests are cries for justice for George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake. They'll not soon be forgotten, not by me, not by us, or not by this country. Folks, we ave to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis as well. More frequent, extreme weather. The West is on fire. We've lost more forest than the total space of Connecticut and Rhode Island combined, in the West. The Midwest I need not tell you is flooding. You know here in Iowa, the derecho, catastrophic floods and droughts that lay waste to lives, livelihoods and whole communities. And in the South and the East hurricanes are more severe. Oceans are rising. My state's only three feet above sea level. People are already talking about the change we have to make. We don't have a lot of time. Donald Trump, when you say climate change, he thinks hoax, and that stable genius, as he calls himself, continues to say wind power causes cancer. It's the same guy who said, by the way you think I'm making this up, when he was advised about the increasing hurricanes coming across the Atlantic because of the warm water, he said, "Maybe we should drop a nuclear weapon on them." Holy mackerel. This also a guy you may recall, the stable genius, he said, "The problem with the revolutionary war was we didn't have enough airports." And he talks about mental acuity? Whoa. Folks, you look at climate warming. You look at it the way I do. Creates jobs, Iowa jobs, jobs across America. You understand that here in Iowa we've already created thousands of good paying jobs because of your dominant in wind energy. And it's expected that the number of wind jobs will double or triple by 2030 in Iowa. And notwithstanding that the stable genius says wind power causes cancer. Wind power helps save the planet, generates millions of dollars in economic growth, and provides good prevailing wage jobs. Folks, combating climate change means saving the planet, protecting our health, and creating millions of good paying jobs, Union jobs, in wind and solar and carbon capture. Iowa farmers were the first in the world to be in a position where they reach net zero emissions, because we're going to make sure there's a whole lot more land set aside and you get paid for it. Deep rooted products, emissions, reward them. Folks, we can do this. There's nothing beyond our capacity. So honk if you want America to lead again. Honk if you want America to trust each other again. Honk if you want America to be united again. Folks, we cannot afford four more years of Donald Trump. In 2008 and 2012 you placed your trust in Barack Obama and me and we worked for you, for the entire country. Well, I'll do it again in 2020. My campaign is a broad coalition, welcomes Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president. I'll work as hard for those who don't support me as those who do. In my administration, they'll be no red states or blue states, just the United States of America. Folks, I mean this at the bottom of my heart. That's the job of a president, a duty to care, to care for everyone, to heal. And you too have a sacred duty, a duty to vote. It matters. Iowa matters. So in these final days stay empowered, stay united, stay optimistic. Make a plan to vote, vote early, vote on election day, help get out the vote. Go to I willvote.com/ia. Folks, this president has done everything to try to discourage us, to try to convince us that it doesn't matter, all about illegal voting, all the stuff he's putting up, but guess what? He will not be able to stop us at all. Despite Trump's efforts, a recent press article two days ago said never before "in modern presidential politics has a candidate had been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to repress the vote as Trump." End of quote. We will not be silenced. 85 million people have already voted so far. We've had enough. Folks, look, I'll never forget as a kid, the words of President Kennedy about going to the moon. He used the phrase, he said, we're doing it because, " We refuse to postpone, or I refuse to postpone, incredible opportunities available to the American people." There's nothing beyond our capacity. There is no limit to our future. The only thing that can't tear America, look, I'll talk about how we're in trouble. Well, nothing can tear America part, except America itself. And that's exactly what Donald Trump is doing from the beginning. Trying to divide America, pitting Americans against one another based on race, gender, ethnicity, national origin. It's wrong. That's not who we are. Look, folks, everybody knows who Donald Trump is. We got to let him know who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division, science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lies. So folks, it's time for us to stand up, take back our democracy. We can do this. We're so much better than we've been. We can be who we are at our best, the United States of America. There's literally not a thing we've ever been unable to do, nothing. The only country in the world that's ever come out of every crisis stronger than it went in is United States of America. And with your help, I promise you, that's what we'll do again. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, hello, hello. Hello, Philadelphia. It's great to these everyone. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I want to thank Bishop Reid. I really mean it. Sharon Baptist Church for letting us borrow your parking lot. And the DNC Vice Chair, I tell you what, that man can make a speech, can't he? He's pretty darn impressive. Vice Chair Blake, for all you do for our party and all you do to get out the vote. And thank you Congressman Dwight Evans for coming out and speaking today. And for all of you, all of you, all you do to fight for the people of Philadelphia and every single day in Congress. I also want to say thank you to Bishop Hunter and Reverend Mark Tyler, State Representative Morgan. Where's Morgan. Is he … there you go. Okay. Thank you for being here. Thank you for being here. And Bishop Louis Felton, and also want to thank Sharon Baptist choir, church choir. Aren't they great? You know, one of the things I most enjoyed about being back on the campaign trail was meeting with the Black faith leaders all around the country. The churches I get to go to during the primaries and over 400 Black leaders, church leaders, supporting us. Almost every Sunday I'd get to sit in the pew and get inspired. I'd go to mass first early in the morning, then I go to the Black church to get some hope and some invigoration, man. I'd talked to people. I talked to people, hear what was on their minds. Pray with them. And that's what, it was renewing. It was not about me, but our entire family. Jill would be with me and my grandkids. One of my grandkids is with me today, who's a senior here in Philadelphia in college. I also thought a lot about this campaign. It's been unlike any other campaign in history. There's one thing that remains the same, we have to earn our democracy. We have to get out and vote. And as my late friend John Lewis reminded us, freedom is not a state, freedom is an act. We have to defend it. We have to vote. And this is the most important election of our lifetimes. We're at an inflection point. So we have to vote like we never did before. Every day, every day is a new reminder of how high the stakes are, of how far the other side will go to try to suppress the turnout, especially here in Philadelphia. President Trump is terrified of what will happen in Pennsylvania. He knows if the people of Pennsylvania get to have their say, if you don't have your say, he doesn't stand a chance. But the American people, the American people will not be silenced. Over 90 million people have already voted. Already voted. They've had enough. They've had enough. There's too much on the line to sit it out, but we only have two more days. Two more days we can put an end to this presidency that has from the very beginning sought to divide us, to tear us apart. Folks, in two days we can put an end to a president that has failed to protect this nation. In two days, we can put and end to a presidency that fanned the flames of hate, poured gasoline on every opportunity he had all across this nation. As I said, millions of Americans have already voted. Millions more will vote in the two days ahead, but there's still a lot of Pennsylvanians who haven't voted yet, and we need every single one of you to get out and vote on Tuesday. My message is simple, Pennsylvania is critical in this election. I live in Delaware, but I'm a Pennsylvania boy born in Scranton. And I want to tell you, the last time Donald Trump ran he won this state by 44,000 votes. So every single vote matters. The power, the power to change this country is literally in your hands. I don't care how hard Donald Trump tries, there is nothing, nothing he's going to do to stop this nation from voting. No matter what he tries. And folks, when American's vote, America will be heard. When America's heard, I believe the message is going to be loud and clear. It's time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home. Time to breathe some life back into this nation. We're done. We're tired of the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, the irresponsibility. We got a lot of work to do. I'm I elected your president, we're going to do it and we're going to act and we're going to start from the very first day. We're going to act to get COVID under control. It's almost criminal the way he has handled it. On day one of my presidency I'm going to put in action a plan I've been talking about for months, masking, social distancing, testing, tracing, a plan for full and fair and free distribution of therapeutics, vaccines, when we get one. A plan to address the disproportionate way this virus … vaccines when we get a one. A plan to address the disproportionate way this virus has been hitting and devastating the black community across America. Folks, every single day we're seeing race-based disparities in every aspect of this virus. Higher infections rates, lower access to testing, harder time quarantining safely, lower access to quality treatment when you become infected, and tragically, higher mortality rates, three times as many African Americans are dying as white Americans … when they get the virus One in 100 Black Americans, excuse me, one in 1,000 Black Americans have died from COVID-19. And if we don't change between now and January, it's estimated one in 500 by the end of this pandemic. That is a mass casualty event in the Black community. And it's totally unnecessary. Totally uncalled for. My public health plan will ensure the needs of communities that are being hit the hardest by this virus are a priority, not an afterthought. We're going to have the plan to get our economy back on track. Not to get the back where we were, but to build back better, to make sure everyone is dealt in on a full scale share of the American dream. We're going to address systemic racism and build real rural economic opportunity and equality for the Black community. The blinders have been taken off. The American people have seen, they've seen how bad things are. To make it easier to start a business, to buy your first home, to pursue an education after high school without being burdened with debt, to invest in HBCUs that do so much to mold Black leaders of tomorrow. I mean it. It's not just talk. I mean it. We're going to have to deliver racial justice in America. I see in all the protests here in Philadelphia and across the country a cry for justice. Folks, protesting is not burning or looting and violence must never be tolerated. It won't. But the names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, Walter Wallace Jr., they will not soon be forgotten. They will not be forgotten by me, they will not be forgotten by you, and they'll not be forgotten by the American people because here's what they're going to do. They're inspiring a new wave of justice in America. And George Floyd's little girl, six years old, said to me when I went to be with the family … I knelt down to say hi to her and she looked at me and she said, "Daddy is going to change the world." Daddy, that's what she said to me. Six years old. Daddy. Look, we can change the world. Not in one fell swoop. We can change it. We all know this country has to come together. We can not afford four more years of anger, hate, and division that we've seen under this president. Folks, look, from the day he announced, from the moment he came down that escalator, what did he say in New York? He said, "We're going to go out and get those rapist Mexicans." Rapist Mexicans. He put a ban on all Muslims coming to the United States. And the way he talked about the African-American community. The way he talked about the Hispanic community. Look, folks, we got to come together. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president for everybody. I will work as hard for those who don't support me as those who do support me. I mean it. That's the job of a president, the duty to care, the duty to care for everyone. In President Biden's America, there will be no red states or blue states, there will only be the United States of America. Look, our faith in our country is being tested, but our faith in God is helping us through because of all of you. Thank you for your commitment to the greatest commandment, love our neighbors as ourselves. And for our dedication to never grow weary of doing good. Being with you all reminds me of that gospel hymn that inspired so many of us. When I last talked to John Lewis, as he's dying, he reminded me of it. I don't feel no ways tired. I've come too far from where I started from. Nobody told me the road would be easy. I don't believe he brought me this far to leave me. He did not leave us. We are not tired. The road hasn't been easy, but we've come too far to stop now. So please vote. Get everyone you know to vote. We need to get every soul in Philadelphia to the polls. Your voice, your vote matters. Your voice deserves to be heard. And if you still have an absentee ballot, get it to a dropbox as soon as you can. Or you can vote on election day, but make a plan. And I mean it, make a plan now. Help get out the vote. Go to iwillvote.com/pa. Folks, folks, you know I've been doing this awhile. One of the reasons I got elected in the first place in Delaware across the line was because of the folks in Pennsylvania. All the media and Pennsylvania, all the media in Delaware for the first 25 years of my career was all Philadelphia television. There wasn't no Delaware television. And I was very happy to have the moniker of being known as Pennsylvania's third Senator. I know Philadelphia well. I married a Philly girl, by the way. And by the way, I got my Eagles jacket on. Folks, here's what I want to say and I'll conclude. You've been here a long time. I'll never forget when President John F. Kennedy said, when he promised that we're going to go to the moon. He said, he said words and my colleagues in the senate always used to kid me for repeating. He said, "We're doing it because we Americans, we refuse to postpone." Well, I refuse to postpone the incredible opportunities available to the American people. I refuse to postpone what we can do. There's nothing beyond the capacity of the United States of America. Nothing. There's no limit to America's future. The blinders have been taken off. The only thing could tear America part is America itself. And that's exactly what Trump's been trying to do from the very beginning, dividing America based on race, religion, gender, national origin. It's wrong. It's not who we are. This is not who we are. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let's keep showing them who we are. Folks, and I mean this, this is not just campaign rhetoric. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction and yes, we choose truth over lies, the multiple lies he repeats. It's time to stand up. It's time to take back our democracy. We can do this. We're better than this. We're better than what we've been. We can be at our best. This is the United States of America. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. I love you. I love you. You brought me to the dance. Thank you, thank you, thank you. God love you all. Keep the faith. Every time I walk into my grandpop's house in Scranton, walk out the door, Bishop B'd yell, "Joey, keep the faith." When my grandmother was alive, she'd yell, "No Joey, spread it." Let's spread the faith. Whoa. Holy mackerel. Hello, Tampa. Thank you so much, Chloe. You guys look like you're so far away, you may be in Delaware. Great to see you all. Thanks for so many of you being here. As my mother would say, God love you all. Chloe, thanks for sharing your story and for all that you do. We often say that a person contributes to their community, but how many people can you name who have done more for this city and its people than Chloe? Chloe, congratulations. Turned abandoned buildings and dangerous lots into places of life and hope, making sure that bringing the community together to build homes for local families and helping young people around Tampa learn job skills, instill pride and purpose in neighborhoods that have been left behind, and laying the groundwork for economic opportunity that endures through generations. That's the sort of work that changes the world. So thank you, Chloe. Thank you. I also want to thank all the other speakers here tonight, including your remarkable mayor. Jane, you're something else, kid. Thanks for the passport into town. I appreciate it. And my friends, and these are my friends, Congressman Charlie Chris. You were there in the beginning, Charlie. Thank you, pal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And Kathy Castor, her district. I sought permission to come. She said, "Okay." Thanks Kath. And Alan Cohn, who we've got to send to Congress. And I just spent some time with one of my best buddies. A guy I served with for a long time in the United States Senate, Bill Nelson. I haven't served with anyone with more character, courage and decency than Bill and his daughter, Nan, and his son, Billy, as well as amazing Grace who is with him. She's something else, isn't she? Look folks, five days left. Five days, but who's counting right? But who's counting? Scranton. I got a Scranton sign here. I don't know, man. I'm getting… Wilmington. I'm getting confused here, man. Millions of Americans have already voted, over 75 I'm told. 75 million and millions more are going to vote before this is over. And I believe when you use your power, the power of the vote, we literally are going to change the course of this country for generations to come. We're going to do it both at home and abroad right here in Florida with all of you. You're the ones who built this country. CEOs and Wall Street didn't build this country. You did. No, not a joke. I've been saying this for years. Middle class people did, hardworking folks and unions built the middle class I might add. And you're the ones who are going to save this country. Look, I said, I got in this race for three reasons a year ago, little over a year, and I meant it. The first was to restore the soul of this country. This is not who we are, is not who we are. We're more decent, honorable. We're more respectful. We're better people than we've been seen from this administration. Second reason was to restore the backbone of this country, the middle class and bring everybody along this time. And thirdly, to unite this country. We have to unite us. These final days, keep that sense of empowerment with you. That sense of optimism, what we can do, what we can overcome. That's the God's truth. I've never been more optimistic about America and America's chances than I am today. Because I know the American people. I know who we are. We have never, ever, ever, ever let the country down and give it a chance. And on November 3rd, we're going to unite this country and show the world who American really is. I mean it. I know it's hard. Over these past few months has been so much pain, so much suffering, so much- So much pain, so much suffering, so much loss in America. More than 225,000 people dead, 225,000. The estimates are, if we'd have acted responsibly, there'd be 160,000 fewer dead than there are today, because of COVID-19. We're now past the nine million mark of people infected. More than 16,000 people in Florida have been lost, and millions of people are out of work, on the edge. They can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. It's like that old bad joke of my generation, it's a freight train, because that's what happens if he stays in office. Donald Trump has given up. Over the weekend, the White House Chief of Staff said, and I'm quoting, "We're not going to control the pandemic." It's obvious he's not. At the debate last week with Trump, he said, "We're rounding the corner. It's going away. We're learning to live with it." Remember what I told him? He's asking us to learn to die with it. That's what's happening. Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to this virus. But the American people never give up, we never give in, and we surely don't cower. And neither will I. Donald Trump just had a super spreader event here again. They're spreading more than just coronavirus. He's spreading division and discord. We need a President that's going to bring us together, not pull us apart. I'll put a plan in place to deal with this pandemic responsibly, bringing the country together around testing, tracing, masking. Leading doctors in America, including Trump's own CDC Director and Dr. Fauci last week said that if we just wore a mask, between now and the end of the year, we'd save 100,000 lives. Folks, that's not a political statement. It's a patriotic duty, for God's sake. But still Donald Trump refuses to listen to science. And we shouldn't be politicizing the race for a vaccine. We should be planning for its safe use and free and equitable distribution, providing PPE for national standards for school, businesses to open safely. I laid out a plan back in May how to do that, bringing together Republicans and Democrats to deliver economic relief. That's already passed by the Democratic House of Representatives for working families, for schools and businesses. I've said it before, I'm not going to shut down the economy. I'm not going to shut down the country. I'm going to shut down the virus. Donald Trump inherited a strong economy from Barack and me, just like he inherited everything in his life. Oh, it's a fact. He squandered that economy like he squandered everything else. But folks, I promise you, I guarantee you, we can build back and build back better with an economy that rewards work not wealth, and we can do it without raising taxes a single solitary penny from working class or middle class families. I guarantee you, my word as a Biden, no one making less than $ 400,000 will pay a single penny more in taxes. Not a penny. But I tell you what I'm going to do, and I make no apologies for it, I'm going to ask the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations of the Fortune 500 companies, 91 making a collective billions of dollars, didn't pay a single solitary penny in federal tax. Well, I'm going to make sure they pay their fair share. Why should a firefighter, an educator, a nurse pay at a higher rate than the super wealthy or corporate America? Because you do, you do. Why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump pays? If we made this as a movie 10 years ago, people would think we're making it up. But it's true. We're going to deliver tax relief for working families of the middle class to help you buy your first home, help you pay for health care premiums, for childcare, for caring for your aging loved ones, for eliminating college debt. We're going to take care of this. And we can afford it. Look, Trump got his Supreme Court Justice, and he did it for one overwhelming reason, something he's been trying to do since the day he got elected, to destroy the Affordable Care Act. He's going at it again. If they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for pre-existing conditions, cancer, all diseases that are out there. Folks, look, 8.4 million Floridians have pre-existing conditions. Complications of COVID-19 will become the next pre-existing condition, allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, deny your coverage. A lot of you young people don't even realize it, but before we passed the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies charged women more for the same healthcare as men, just because they were women. Fact, Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it's you're right. If we all get out and vote, we'll not only restore Obamacare, we'll strengthen and build on it, so you can keep your private insurance if you like it, and you can choose a Medicare like option if you don't. We're going to increase subsidies and lower your payments and deductibles and premiums, out-of-pocket spending, reduce the unknown billing, reduce prescription drug costs by, according to the experts, up to 60%, by allowing, not making this stuff up, by allowing Medicare to negotiate for drug prices. We're going to make sure you keep the protections for people with pre-existing conditions. We're going to protect social security and Medicare, which they've been trying to cut for years. Meanwhile, the social security actuary, the guy who runs it, says the plan like Donald Trump says he wants to institute if he gets reelected, he says will bankrupt social security by 2023. As my wife would say, "Google it." You'll see what I'm telling you. You've got that right, pal. He said, "Trump is bankrupt." By the way, he probably is. He owes $400 million to somebody. Anyway, folks, we have to vote. We have to vote for our military families. No, not a joke. Folks, of all the things Donald Trump has said, nothing has bothered me worse than the way he's spoken to those who served in uniform. He called them losers and suckers. Losers and suckers. My deceased son, Beau Biden won the Bronze Star, Conspicuous Service Medal and other awards. Volunteered to go to Iraq for a year, gave up his attorney general job to go with his unit. He wasn't a sucker, or a loser. He was a patriot. Like all of you who served. Like your sons, your daughters, your parents, and your grandparents. We have to vote for their dignity, respect they are due. We have to vote because while Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy, we can deliver racial justice while he's trying to make it worse. Look, Donald Trump doesn't believe that systemic racism is a problem. He won't say black lives matter. We know they matter. That's why a season of protest has broken out across the nation. But by the way, protesting is not burning or looting. Violence must never be a tactic tolerated, and it won't. But these protestors are in a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake will not soon be forgotten. Not by me, not by us, not by this country. When I met with the family, his little daughter said, looked at me and she's only about seven years, and I knelt down to talk to her and the family. She looked at me, and she said, "Mr. Vice President, my daddy is changing the world." Well guess what? The inspiration coming from her daddy would happen, this new wave of justice in America. But true justice is also more than just dealing with abuse. It's about economic justice. It's about schools, housing, access to capital, good paying jobs, a minimum wage of a minimum of $15 an hour. Financial stability. Giving families of color a real shot to own their own home, start a small business, send a child to college debt-free, so we can build wealth and pass on opportunities through generations like we did like, so many middle-class families have in the past. But we have to vote to ensure the full promise of this country. We have to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis. Because you know in Florida, it is a crisis. We're all seeing the impact more than most. Devastating hurricanes to lay waste to all communities. Economic toll is astounding, and it grows every year, but the human toll is worse. Lost lives, lost homes, small businesses shattered. First responders put at risk from the West Coast burning, the middle part of the country flooding. Donald Trump when he thinks of climate change, he says hoax. Well, guess what? Speaking of hoaxes, remember what he said about these increasing violent hurricanes and the frequency? He actually said, maybe we should detonate a nuclear bomb over the Atlantic. By the way, the same stable genius who said, the biggest problem we had in the revolutionary war is we didn't have enough airports. Whoa. Man, I tell you, what. His answer to families in Puerto Rico, struggling through Hurricane Maria was, what would he do? Toss rolls of paper towels at them. He doesn't have any real answers. We know we can do something about it while combating climate change means jobs. We can unleash American ingenuity and manufacturing and build a stronger, more climate-resistant nation, creating millions of new high paying jobs. We can change the path we're on. We've got to act now. Time is running out. This country can't afford four more years of Trump, who thinks he's only responsible to the people who voted for him. I don't see the presidency that way. I see an American as an American. I'd run as a proud Democrat. But guess what? It's starting to rain, and I'm going to shorten this for y'all. I don't see America that way. In 2008 and 2012, you placed your trust in Barack and me. Well guess what? Each day we were in office, we worked for you, the entire country. It was never about red States or blue States, always about the United States of America. I was reminded of that last month when I visited Gettysburg. Folks, you know what? When I went to Gettysburg to make that speech, Abraham Lincoln said a house divided cannot stand. Well, a nation divided cannot stand. I was reminded of that earlier this week. Ladies and gentlemen, you got to go to, IWillVote.com/FLA. Become FL. Return your ballot today. I never forgot what President Kennedy said about going to the moon. He said, "We're going, you know why? Because we refuse to postpone." Let's not postpone and get out of the rain. God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. And is the  administration, you voted for us and then an awful lot of people in this county changed and they voted for Trump last time. I know many of you were frustrated. You were angry. You believed you weren't being seen, represented or heard. I get it. It has to change. And I promise you this, it will change with me. You will be seen, heard and respected by me. This campaign isn't about just winning votes, it's about restoring the basic dignity in this country that every worker deserves. Basic dignity that we all have without winning back the hearts and yes, the soul of America, we're not going to make it. Just a few days ago when I was asked about the death count approaching 200,000, the president said, and I quote, he said, I won't quote him. The president said, "If you take out the blue states run by Democratic governors and just look at the red states, Republican governors are doing quite well." Now, of course, it's a simple, factual matter, it's just not true. If you just count all the deaths in the red states, we are number two in the world in death just behind Brazil. But more fundamentally, reflects on the part of Donald Trump that he has a deeply flawed and divisive view of the United States, this nation and the job he holds. Think about what he's saying. He's saying, if you live in a state like Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, states with Democratic governors, you're not his problem. He has no obligation to you. He's not responsible for you as president, your family or your wellbeing. I don't see the presidency that way. I don't pledge allegiance to red states of America or blue states of America, I pledge allegiance to the United States of America. One nation, indivisible under God. For real. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I'm not going to govern as a Democratic president, I'm going to govern as president. I get criticized for saying that sometimes with some in my party, but that's not what I'm going to do. I'm going to fight as hard for those who supported me as those who did not support me. This is not a partisan moment for God's sake. This has to be an American moment. In the next few weeks, we have a chance to put anger and division and the darkness that overtaken this country behind us. We've got to put it behind us. I know I've been criticized since I entered the primaries about, I say, I want to unite the country. We have to unite the country. This is not who we are and we can. We've done it so many times in our history. We've begun to a new. If we get control of this virus, we can. We can reward work. We can fix the healthcare system. We can be a safe and just nation. We can deal with the existential threat of climate change which aluminum is going to be a gigantic part of. We can be what we are at our best, one nation. One nation, one people, one America. You just have to remember who in God's name we are. This is the United States of America. In our long history, there's been nothing we've been unable to do, nothing we've been able to overcome when we've done it together. And I'm confident going all over this nation, we can do it together. The American people are hungry. We have to bring the nation together. That's going to be my primary job. Ans I want to thank you all. God bless you for what you're doing. May you all stay safe and may God protect our troops. Thank you so much, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. And thank you ma'am. Appreciate it. Well, this young woman is the co-founder of Phoenix, of Sherman Phoenix, in Milwaukee, taking a neighborhood that was beginning to be a part of the ash then, and has brought it back to life miraculously. I am so proud to introduce Joanne Sabir. Come on, girl. I hope you got masks on everyone. It's cold. Hello Milwaukee, it's good to be back. I'll tell you what, they told me it's going to be indoors. You're a hardy bunch in Milwaukee. Sheriff, how are you doing? Look, Terrence, thank you. Thank you for sharing your story. Thank you for your exercising your power as a young voter first time. You're an inspiration man, and I want you to know that a lot of us in here growing up as kids understood what is like to know bullies. I had planned on saying this in light of your introduction, Sheriff and Tom's heard me say this before, and the mayor. When I was a kid, I used to stutter. You want to learn what bullies are like, be a stuttering kid, talk like that everybody thinks they can make fun of you. So I'm used to bullies. Matter of fact, they used to have a nickname in school, Tom. They used to call me Shoe Leather. The reason they call me Shoe Leather, I was a little . He came home anyway. He was given months to live, and guess what? He wasn't a loser. He wasn't a sucker. He was a patriot, just like your sons and daughters, your parents and grandparents. Look, folks. If you ever wonder, Trump keeps talking about how strong he is. He's strong and the rest of the nations listen to him. Everybody's afraid of him. Well, let me tell you what. He's the first President I'm aware of in American history that six generals, including his former Chief of Staff, six of them left, resigned, and said he wasn't fit to be Commander in Chief. General Stanley McChrystal, Special Operations Commander. He's the guy oversaw the Bin Laden raid. Bill McRaven, and 22, he oversaw. He was a SEAL. He head up the SEALs. And 22 4-Stars have endorsed me, saying they trust me to be the next Commander in Chief of the United States Military. Folks, it's about respect. It's about support, and that's why the Military Times, which his staff tried to wipe out, Military Times just wrote an article saying more active duty troops support Biden than Trump. So much for the guy who talks about what a tough guy he is and why everybody listens to him. Look, that's why we have to support the military, and we have to make sure we considerably invest more, which I don't have to take the time to talk to you tonight about, but invest significantly more in dealing with the Veterans Administration. While Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy, we can vote to deliver racial justice. Folks, a season of protest has broken out all over this nation, and protesting is not burning and looting and violence, and must never be tolerated and won't. That's not protesting. But those protests are cries for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, they're not going to soon be forgotten. Not by me, not by us, not by this country. We have to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis as well. More frequent, extreme weather. Literally, the planet's at stake. We're told the number of years before it's irreversible is getting narrower and narrower. The West is on fire. More forest land has been burned to the ground than the entire square miles of Rhode Island and Connecticut combined. The Midwest is flooding. Here in Wisconsin, extreme weather incurs big cost for your infrastructure. Lake Michigan set a record high this past January, and the South and East hurricanes are more severe. Oceans are rising. My state's only three feet above sea level, literally. People are worried what happens if we don't change this. Folks, Donald Trump thinks that when you say climate change, he says hoax. Well, this stable genius, as he calls himself, also thinks that wind power causes cancer. The way to stop hurricanes coming across the warm Atlantic from Africa is to maybe drop a nuclear bomb on them. The same stable genius said the problem we had in the Revolutionary War, we didn't have enough airports. And of the Revolutionary War, God saved the… Anyway. Look, when I hear climate change, I think the health of our children, the security of the planet, and I also think it creates jobs. Jobs here in Wisconsin, all across the country. Folks, combating climate change means saving the planet, protecting our health, and creating millions of good-paying jobs, union jobs right here in Milwaukee and all across America. We can change the path we're on, but we have to act now, because we can't afford four more years of Donald Trump. This election, I promise you, your grandkids are going to write about how it set the path for at least the generation here in America. You know, in 2008 and 2012, we came to y'all, Barack and me, and we asked for your help. You helped us, and each day we were in office, we worked for you and the entire country. I'm going to do that again. My 2020 campaign is a broad coalition. We welcome Democrats and Republicans and Independents. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I'm going to govern as an American president. There will be no blue States or red States, just the United States. I'll work as hard for those who vote against me as those who voted for me, because that's what a president is supposed to do. The duty to care. The duty to care for everyone. Look, you too have a sacred duty to vote. It matters. Wisconsin matters. So if you haven't already, and most of you probably have, make a plan, vote. Get out the vote. If you've already voted, get your mom, dad, brother, sister, neighbor. Get them to vote. Go to iwillvote.com/wi. You've got to get it done to make sure everyone knows where to vote, when to vote. Look, a press article yesterday, speaking of Donald Trump, two days ago, actually, said, and I quote, "Never before in modern presidential politics has a candidate been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to depress the vote as Donald Trump." So let's be careful here. Guess what? He's not going to be able to stop us, not at all. As I said, he'll not silence the over 85 million people who have already voted. They've had enough. People are coming out in droves, waiting three, four, five, six hours in other states just to vote. Let me conclude by saying I'l never forget the phrase used by President Kennedy when he decided to send us to the moon, get to the moon. He said, when asked why, he said, "We refuse to postpone. We're the United States of America. We refuse to postpone the incredible opportunities available to the American people." I refuse to postpone the enormous possibilities we have. I've been around a while, but I'd never been more optimistic about America's chances than I am today. I really mean it. There's nothing beyond our capacity. Nothing. There's no limit to what America can do. We're the only country in the history of the world that's come out of every crisis stronger than when we went in. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself, and that's exactly what Donald Trump has been doing from the beginning of his campaign, last time out. Dividing America, pitting Americans against one another based on race, gender, religion, national origin, ethnicity. It's wrong. That's not who we are. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let's let them know who we are, who we are in the last four days. We choose hope over fear, unity over division, science over fiction, and yes, truth over lies. So folks, it's time to stand up and take back our democracy. We can do this. We'll be better than we been. We can be who we want to be at our best, the United States of America. I promise you, we can do this. You helped me get there. I promise you, I'll take responsibility. When I make a mistake, I'll acknowledge it, but I will take responsibility and I won't let you down. God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thanks, everybody. I appreciate it. You've got to be freezing. All right. They're telling me I'm going this way. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Natural History Museum. As a nation, we face one of the most difficult moments in our history, in my view. Four historic crises all at the same time. The worst pandemic in a hundred years, it's already killed nearly 200,000 people and counting. The worst economic crisis since the Great Depression has cost tens of millions of American jobs and counting. Emboldened white supremacy unseen since the '60s and a reckoning on race that's long overdue. And undeniable acceleration of the punishing reality of climate change on our planet, and our people, on the lives and livelihoods, which I like to talk about now. Jill and I continue, as I suspect all of you do, is pray for everyone in California, Oregon, and Washington, and across the West as these devastating wildfires rage one. Just as we hold them in our hearts those who have faced the hurricanes, tropical storms, off our coast of Florida, North Carolina, or like parts of New Orleans that in fact have just finished an emergency evacuation order for Hurricane Sally. Floods and droughts across the Midwest. The fury of climate change everywhere. All this year and right now. We stand with our families who have lost everything. The firefighters, the first responders, risking and everything to save others. And the millions of Americans caught between relocating during a pandemic or staying put as ashes and smoke pollute the air they breathe. Just think about that. People aren't just worried about raging fires, they're worried about the air they breathe, about the damage to the lungs. Parents are already worried about COVID-19 for their children when they're indoors and now they're worried about asthma attacks if their kids are outside. Over the past two years, the total damage from wildfires has reached nearly $50 billion in California alone. 50 billion. This year alone, nearly 5 million acres have burned across 10 States, more acreage than the entire state of Connecticut. And it's only September. California's wildfire season typically runs through October. Fires are blazing so brightly, smoke reaching so far, NASA satellites can see them 1 million miles away in space. The cost of this year's damage will again be astronomically high, but think of it from the view on the ground. In the smoldering ashes, loved ones lost, along with the photos, the keepsakes, all the memories, spouses and kids praying each night for their firefighter husband, father, wife, and mother. Will they come home? Entire communities destroyed. We have to act as a nation. It shouldn't be so bad that millions of Americans live in the shadow of an orange sky and they're left asking, "Is doomsday here?" And I know this feeling of dread and anxiety extends well beyond the fires. We've seen record hurricane season costing billions of dollars as well. Last month, Hurricane Laura intensified at a near record rate just before it's landfall along Louisiana and Gulf Coast. It's a troubling marker, not for just the increased frequency of the hurricanes, but more powerful and destructive storms. They're causing record damage after record damage to people's homes, lives, and livelihoods. Before it intensified and hit the Gulf Coast, Laura ravaged Puerto Rico, where three years ago Hurricane Maria, our fellow Americans there are still recovering from its damage and devastation. Think about that reality. Our fellow Americans are still putting things back together from the last big storm as they face the next one. We've also seen historic flooding in the Midwest, often compounding the damage delivered by last year's floods that cost billions of dollars in damage. Many of you traveled through the Midwest with me on that bus tour and you saw it. This past spring in Midland, Michigan experienced a flood so devastating with deadly flash flooding over running dams and roadways that is displaced 10,000 residents. It was considered once in a 500 year weather event. But those once in many generation events are now happening every year. The past 10 years were the hottest decade ever recorded. The Arctic is literally melting. Parts are actually on fire. What we're seeing in America and our communities is connected to all of this. With every bout with nature's fury caused by our own inaction on climate change, more Americans see and feel the devastation. Whether in the big cities, small towns, on coastlines, or in farm lands, it's happening everywhere and it's happening now, and it affects us all. Nearly 200 cities, not Republican or Democratic cities, 200 cities are experiencing the longest stretches of deadly heat waves in 50 years. Requires them to help their poor and elderly residents adapt to the extreme heat to simply stay alive, especially in a home without air conditioning, which many don't have. Our family farmers in the Midwest are facing historic drought. Those follow record floods and hurricanes, sped by wind storms, all this year. The speed of those windstorms has been incredible when you saw it on television or saw it in person. It's ravaged millions of acres of corn, soybeans, and other crops. Their very livelihoods, which sustain their families, and our economy for generations is now in jeopardy. How do they pay their bills this year? What will be left to pass onto their kids? And none of this is happening in a vacuum. Recent studies showed air pollution is linked with increased risk of death from COVID-19. Our economy can't recover if it can't build back with more resiliency, more ability to withstand extreme weather, extreme weather that will only come with greater frequency and intensity. The unrelenting impact of climate change affects every single solitary one of us, but too often the brunt falls disproportionately on communities of color, exacerbating the need for environmental justice, sorry, there was a bug, speaking of the environment. These are interlocking crises of our time. Requires action, not denial. Requires leadership, not scapegoating. It requires the President to meet the threshold duty of the office to care, to care for everyone, to defend us from every attack scene, seen and unseen, always and without exception, because here's the deal: hurricanes don't swerve to avoid Red States or Blue States. Wildfires don't skip towns that voted a certain way. The impacts of climate change don't pick and choose. That's because it's not a partisan phenomenon, it's science and our response should be the same. Grounded in science. Acting together, all of us, but like with our federal response to COVID-19, a lack of a national strategy on climate, on climate change overall, leaves us with a patchwork of solutions. Matter of fact, it's been made worse by the changes this administration has made. I'm speaking from Delaware. We're the lowest line state in the nation relative to sea level, where just last week, Delaware state attorney general sued 31 big fossil fuel companies alleging that they knowingly wrecked havoc and damage on climate, our climate. Damage that is plain for everyone to see but the President. And as he flies to California today, we know he has no interest in meeting this moment. We know he won't listen to the experts or treat this disaster with the urgency it demands, as any President should do during the national emergency. He's already said he wanted to withhold aid to California to punish the people of California because they didn't vote for him. This is another crisis. Another crisis he won't take responsibility for. The West is literally on fire. And he blames the people whose homes and communities are burning. He says, "You got to clean your floors. You got to clean your forest." This is the same President who threw paper towels on the people of Puerto Rico instead of truly helping them recover and rebuild. We know his disdain for our own military leaders and our veterans. Just last year, the Defense Department reported that climate change is a direct threat to more than two thirds of the military's operationally critical installations. That's what the military warned him. And this could well could be a conservative estimate. Donald Trump's climate denial may not have caused these fires and record floods and record hurricanes, but if he gets a second term, these hellish events will continue to become more common, more devastating and more deadly. Meanwhile, Donald Trump warns that integration is threatening our suburbs. It's ridiculous, but you know what is actually threatening our suburbs? Wildfires are burning the suburbs in the West. Floods are wiping out suburban neighborhoods in the Midwest. Hurricanes are imperiling suburban life along our coast. We have four more years of Trump's climate denial, how many suburbs will be burned in wildfires? How many suburban neighborhoods will have been flooded out? How many suburbs will have been blown away in superstorms? If you give a climate arsonist four more years in the White House, why would anyone be surprised if we have more America blaze? If we give a climate denier four more years in the White House, why would anyone be surprised when more of America is underwater? We need a President who respects science, who understands that the damage from climate change is already here. And unless we take urgent action, it will soon be more catastrophic. A President who recognizes, understands, and cares that Americans are dying, which makes President Trump's climate denialism, his disdain for science and facts, all the more unconscionable. Once again, he fails the most basic duty to a nation. He fails to protect us from the pandemic, from an economic free fall, from racial unrest, from the ravages of climate change. It's clear that we're not safe in Donald Trump's America. This is Donald Trump's America. He's in charge. What he doesn't get is that even in a crisis, there's nothing beyond the capacity of the American people when we stand up and act together. And while so many of you are hurting right now, I want you to know that if you give me the honor of serving as your President, we can, and we will meet this moment with urgency and purpose. We can, and we will solve the climate crisis, and we'll build back better than we were before. When Donald Trump thinks about climate change, he thinks hoax. When I think about it, I think jobs. Good paying union jobs to put Americans to work, building a stronger, more climate resilient nation. A nation modernized. We have modernized water and transportation systems. An energy infrastructure to withstand the impacts of extreme weather and changing climate. When Donald Trump thinks about renewable energy, he sees windmills somehow as causing cancer. I see American manufacturing, American workers racing to lead the global market. I see farmers making agriculture the first in the world to achieve net zero emissions. And in the process, gaining new sources of income. Donald Trump's thinks about LED light bulbs, he says he doesn't like them because the lights are no good. They always make him look orange. I see small businesses and master electricians designing and installing award-winning energy conservation measures, rebuilding buildings across the country. It's going to reduce electrical consumption and save businesses hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in energy costs. While he turns against our allies, I'll bring us back into the Paris Agreement. I'll put us back in the business of leading the world on climate change, and I'll challenge every other country to up the ante on climate commitments. Where he reverses the Obama Biden fuel efficiency standards, he picks big oil. He picks big oil companies over American workers, even when the automobile industry agreed. I don't want to bring the standards back, I'll set new ambitious ones that our workers are ready to meet. I'll also see American workers building and installing 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations along our newly engaged infrastructure programs and highways, all across the country. I see American consumers switching to electric vehicles through rebates and initiatives. Not only that, the United States owns and maintains and enormous fleet of vehicles. And we're going to harness the purchasing power of our Federal Government to make sure we're buying electric vehicles that are made and sourced by union workers right here in the United States of America. And together, this will mean more than a million new jobs in the American auto industry. And we'll do another big thing, we'll put us on a path to achieving a carbon pollution-free electricity sector by 2035 that no future President can come along and turn back. Transforming the electrical sector power to produce power without carbon pollution will be the greatest spur to job creation and economic competitiveness in the 21st century, not to mention the positive benefits to our health and our environment. We need to get to work right away. We'll need scientists at the National Labs and Land-grant universities, historic black colleges and universities, to improve and innovate technologies needed to generate, store, and transmit this clean electric. We need engineers to design and workers to manufacture these new products. We'll need iron workers and welders to install them. We'll need to become the world's largest exporter of these technologies, creating even more jobs sourced in America. We know how to do this. The Obama-Biden administration rescue the auto industry and help them retool. We made solar energy cost competitive with traditional energy and weatherized more than a million homes, which is just the beginning if we get reelected. And We'll do it again, bigger and faster and better than before. We'll also build 1.5 million new energy efficient homes and public housing units that will benefit our communities in three times over by eliminating the affordable housing crisis, by increasing energy efficiency, and by reducing the racial wealth gap linked to home ownership. There are thousands of oil and natural gas wells that oil companies and gas companies have abandoned, many of what you're leaking toxins. We can 250,000 jobs now by just plugging those wells right away. Good union jobs for energy workers. This will help sustain communities and protect them from the environmental damage as well, whilst creating new markets for our family farmers and ranchers. We'll launch a new, modern Civilian Climate Corp to heal our public lands and make us much less vulnerable to wildfires and floods. I believe that every American has a fundamental right to breathe clean air and drink clean water. I know that we haven't fulfilled that right yet. That's true of the millions families struggling with the smoke created devastation of the wildfires right now, but it's also been true for a generation or more in places like Cancer Alley in Louisiana, or right here in Delaware, along the Route 9 Carter, right here in Delaware, fulfilling this basic obligation to all Americans, especially in low income, white, black, Brown, and Native American communities who too often don't have the clean air and the clean water. It's not going to be easy, but it's necessary. I'm committing to get it done. These aren't pie in the sky dreams. These are concrete, actionable problems that create American jobs, mitigate climate change, and put our nation on the road to net zero emissions by no later than 2050. Some say we can't afford to fix this, but here's the thing, look around at the crushing consequences of the extreme weather events I've been describing. We've already been paying for it. So we have a choice. We can invest in our infrastructure to make it stronger, more resilient, improving the health of Americans and creating millions of good paying jobs while at the same time, tackling the root causes of climate change, or we can continue down the path Donald Trump has us on. A path of indifference, costing tens of billions of dollars to rebuild when the human cost, the lives and the livelihoods and the homes and the communities destroyed, are immeasurable. We have a choice. We can commit to doing this together because we know that climate change is the existential challenge that's going to determine our future as a country for our children, our grandchildren, and our great grandchildren, or we can do it Donald Trump's way. Ignore the facts, deny reality, which amounts to a full surrender and a failure to lead. It's backward looking politics that's going to harm the environment, make communities less healthy, and hold back economic progress while other countries race ahead. And it's a mindset that doesn't have any faith in the capacity of the American people to compete, to innovate, and to win. Like the pandemic, dealing with climate change is a global crisis. And that requires American leadership. It requires a President for all Americans. So as the fires rage out West on this day, our prayers remain with everyone under the ash. I know it's hard to see the sun rise, believing today will be a better day than yesterday. Americans face this historic inflection point. A time of real peril, but also a time of extraordinary possibilities. I'm confident. I know we can do this. We will do this. This is the United States of America. We've seen the light through the dark smoke. We never give up. Always without exception, every time, we succeed when we try. May God bless our firefighters and keep them safe, and our first responders. May God protect our troops. Thank you very much. I'm anxious to hear what the President had to say. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, hello, hello! It's good to see you all. Hello, Detroit! Thank you all for coming out tonight. I can't tell you how much I appreciate it.  Thank you all so much for being here. I tell you what, I do miss the opportunity to just wander in and shake hands with all of you. But we decided a while ago that we were going to try to be responsible and not be… I won't get into it, but just be responsible. And so thank you for wearing your mask and thank you for the social distancing. And thank you for being here. Ladies and gentlemen, Manny and Patricia, I want to thank you so much for being here today, for sharing your memory of Joaquin. Folks, I know what it means to lose a child and many of you do as well. And no matter how often, no matter how long ago it occurred, every time you stand up and you want to talk about your son or daughter that you lost, it brings back the memories as if it happened 10 minutes ago. It takes a lot of courage to stand up and talk. And you feel like you have a black hole's been ripped in the middle of your chest and you're being sucked into it. But through your courage and the courage of the Parkland families, like my friend Corey Hixon and his mom Debbie and brother Tom who are here today and other students who led the march for our lives to take on the NRA and win. We're going to help us all turn tragedy into purpose. I want to thank you for your bravery, thank you for your resolve. I want to thank all the speakers that went ahead of me, including the NBA stars joining us today. I tell you what, the Miami Heat. You ever heard of the Miami Heat, I guess? Well, I'm allowed to say nice things about the Miami Heat even though I come from Sixers country. I apologize for that. But I want to tell you, they made it to the finals full of grit and toughness. And Karl-Anthony Towns, Karl, he knows what it's like to deal with this coronavirus. Karl and his dad lost their mom and wife back in April. And a lot of these families didn't have to lose anybody. And, thank you very much for being here. As well as my friends, Congressman Ted Deutch, thank you for the passport, Ted, into your district. I appreciate it. And my friend, Debbie Wasserman Schultz. We got to send the votes back to the House of Representatives. We're going to increase the numbers in the House of Representatives. Five days left folks. Millions of Americans are already voting, millions more are going to vote by the end of this week. And I believe when you use your power, the power to vote, you're going to change the course of this country for generations to come, at home and abroad. This election is the most important one you've ever voted in. Whether it's your first or tenth. Ladies and gentlemen, the heart and soul of this country is at stake right here in Florida. It's up to you. You hold the key. If Florida goes blue, it's over. It's over. Look, the press has heard me say this a long time, Wall Street and CEOs didn't build this country. People standing out here in your automobiles, you are the ones that built this country. The middle class built this country, and you just built the middle class. You're the ones who are going to save the country now that you built it. In these final days, keep that sense of empowerment with you. That sense of optimism of what we can do, what we will overcome. I've never been more optimistic about America or the American people that am today. And on November the third, we're going to unite this country and show the world who we really are. I know it's hard. All these past few months have been so much pain, so much suffering. So much loss. Over 225,000 dead Americans because of the negligence and the consequence of COVID. More than 16,000 here in Florida alone. As I said in April, Karl-Anthony, he lost his mom. Millions of people out there are out of work, on the edge, can't see the light at the end of the tunnel and Donald Trump has given up. Over the weekend, his White House chief of staff said, and I quote, "We're not going to control this pandemic." In the debate last week with Donald Trump, he said, "We're rounding the corner. It's going away. We're learning how to live with it." No, he expects us to learn how to die with it. That's what I told him. He's doing nothing. We're learning to die with it and Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to the virus. But the American people don't give up. We don't give in and we surely don't cower and nor will I under any circumstance. President Trump's super spreader events that he's spreading more virus around the country. And here in Florida today, he's spreading division in addition, division and discord. We need a president who is going to bring us together, not pull us apart. I'll put in place a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly. I've already done it and bring this country together around testing and tracing and masking. It's estimated by the leading doctors in America, including Trump's own director of the CDC and Dr. Fauci, they called for a mask mandate last week. If we just wore a mask over the next few months, we could save 100,000 projected deaths. 100,000 lives. We're expected to lose another 200,000 people between now and the end of this year if we do nothing. This is not a political statement, it's a patriotic duty for God's sake. But still Trump refused to listen to the science. And we shouldn't be politicizing the race for a vaccine either, we should be planning it safe and equitable and free distribution. Providing the funding for PPE, the mask and everything we need to protect ourselves. Setting a national standard for schools and businesses to reopen. Bringing together Republicans and Democrats to deliver the economic relief that's already been passed in the House of Representatives for working families, the young employed, for schools, for businesses. Allowing you to stay in your home if you don't have the money for rent. Allowing you to stay in your home. 20 million people are on the cliff of losing their home for next month's mortgage payment. I've said it before, I'm not going to shut down the economy. I'm not going to shut down the country, but I'm going to shut down the virus. Look, when Barack and I left office, we left Donald Trump a strong economy, stronger than the one he handled. And just like everything else he inherited, he blew it. Now he's squandering that economy like he squandered everything else. But we can build back and we can build back better with an economy that begins to reward work, not wealth. We can do without raising taxes on a single person making less than 400,000 bucks a year. I promise you that. My word. But if you make $400,000 and above, you're going to start paying your fair share. Ladies and gentlemen, all we're going to ask is the wealthiest among us and the major corporations just began to pay their fair share. 91 of the Fortune 500 companies pay zero in taxes after making billions of dollars. They have to pay a minimum tax. Look, why should a firefighter, an educator, why should a nurse pay a higher tax rate than the super wealthy? Why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump pays? And that's a fact. $750. Remember what he said when that was raised a while ago, how he only pays… He said, "Because I'm smart. I know how to game the system." He games the system at your expense. He games the system at the expense of hardworking American people. We're going to deliver tax relief for working families in the middle class. We're going to help people buy their first home, pay for their healthcare premiums. And for childcare, we're going to care for the aging and loved one. We're going to make sure you can wipe out your college debt as well. We give more help to race horses than we do college students. Look, Trump got the Supreme Court justice passed and he did it for one reason to try to destroy the Affordable Care Act. Again, since he got an office he's been trying to, and the Republican and have been trying to multiple times, try to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. If they get their way this time, 100 million Americans will lose their protection for preexisting conditions. If you have asthma, diabetes, any pre-existing condition, they can charge you so much you can't afford anything. Including 8.4 million Floridians who have pre-existing conditions are now covered. Complications with COVID, heart scarring, lung scarring, heart disease, they're going to become preexisting conditions. Allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, deny your coverage. And most people don't remember it particularly the young people, women will once again be able to charged more for healthcare just because they're a woman. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege, I think it's a right of every American. If you all get out and vote, we'll not only restore Obamacare, we're going to strengthen it and build on it. The Biden plan is going to make sure if you have private insurance, you want to keep it, you can keep it. But you also have an option under my plan. To have a Medicare like option, a public option. We're going to increase subsidies for lower premiums and deductibles, out of pocket spending. And we are going to reduce prescription drug crisis, the experts acknowledged, by 60%. Folks, we're going to make sure we keep preconditions and protections for people with those conditions. We're going to protect social security, Medicare. Meanwhile, the social security actuary says the plan that Trump says he wants to institute if he's reelected would bankrupt security by the year 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, people paid that for their entire careers. Go home and tell that to your parents and grandparents. It will not happen on Biden's watch. Folks, we need to vote for the legacy of Ruth Bader Ginsburg. She was proof that courage, conviction, and moral clarity can change the world without being vicious and mean. She and Justice Scalia disagreed in everything, but they were friends. They disagreed. We got to get back to that. Politics has become so ugly and mean and disruptive, but we can be the voices for justice in her name. We have to make our voices heard. You have to vote. You have to vote because while Donald Trump fails to contain white supremacy, we can deliver on racial justice. Donald Trump, he doesn't believe there's any such thing as systemic racism as a problem. He won't even say black lives matter. Well, you know what I know, black lives do matter and so do others. That's why this season of protest is broken out all across the nation. Let me make it clear, protesting is not burning, it's not looting, it's not violence and must never be tolerated and it won't. But these protestors are a cry for justice from communities that have long, long had the knee of injustice on their neck. The names George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake,  They're not soon going to be forgotten, not by me, not by us and not by this country. We're going to inspire a new wave of justice in America, but true justice is also about economic justice, justice and education, housing, access to capital, good paying jobs. And by the way, it was long overdue time the minimum wage in America is $15 an hour. And by the way, my economic plan has been analyzed by the guys on Wall Street. You know what they say? They say my plan will create 18.6 million good paying jobs. 7 million more than he's going to be able to create if he got elected and a trillion dollars more in economic growth. What he's forgotten, when you all do better, everybody does better, everybody does better. It's not a zero sum game, it's about financial stability and giving families of color a real shot to own a home, to start a business, to send a child to college debt free. So they can build the wealth, pass on opportunity down through generations. Is that how every white family that came from my background got it? They were able to get a house and build an equity, pass it on and grow it. That's what we're going to do. But we have to vote to ensure the full promise of this country. We have to vote for new Cuba policy as well. This administration approach isn't working. Cuba's no closer to freedom and democracy today than it was four years ago. In fact, there are more political prisoners and secret police are as brutal as ever. And Russia once again is a major presence in Havana. So much for his policy. President Trump can't advance democracy and human rights for the Cuban people or the Venezuela people for that matter when he has embraced so many autocrats around the world. Started with Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un of North Korea. Trump is the worst possible standard bearer for democracy in places like Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea. For my entire career, I've stood for democracy and human rights. For freedom of the press, assembly, freedom of religion and against dictators, whether they're left or right. Folks, it unconscionable that the Trump administration says it cares so much are deporting hundreds of Cubans and Venezuelans back to their dictatorships. Trump loves to talk, but he doesn't care about Cuban and Venezuelan people. He won't even grant temporary protective status for Venezuelans fleeing the oppressive regime of Maduro who I've met with and he's a thug. Folks, I will, but we have to vote. And finally, we have to vote to meet the challenge of the climate crisis. This guy doesn't understand much of anything. You've all seen the impact more than most. Devastating hurricanes that lay waste to whole communities. Economic toll is astounding. It grows every year and the human toll was worse. Lost lives, lost homes, small businesses shattered. First responders put at risk. When you talk about global warming, Donald Trump thinks hoax. Well, then he says we shouldn't… By the way, do you know? This is a guy who is the stable genius. Remember, he's the guy that said our problem with the Revolutionary War, we didn't have enough airports. God's truth. He's also the guy when he talked about how many bad hurricanes are coming across the warm waters in the Atlantic from Africa, he said, "Maybe we should nuke them." And also by the way, windmills cause cancer according to him. Look, what's this guy talking about? But we know that we got to do something about it. Combating climate change means jobs. We can unleash the American ingenuity and manufacturing to build a stronger, more climate resistant nation, creating millions of new high paying jobs. And we can change the path we're on, but we've got to act now. This country can't afford to wait four more years of Donald Trump's denial, who thinks the only responsible to the people who voted for him. I don't see the presidency that way. I don't see the presidency that way. In 2008 and 2012, Florida placed their trust in me at Barack and each day we're in office, we worked as hard for you and the entire country as we did not red states, blue states, it was always the United States of America. Folks, I was reminded of that earlier this month when I visited the sacred grounds of Gettysburg. Abraham Lincoln taught us that we need to unite our nation, that a house divided cannot stand. And I was reminded of it earlier this week when I went to Warm Springs, Georgia. Reflecting on FDR taught us about the need to heal the nation. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I'll govern as an American president to unite and to heal. I'll work as hard for those who didn't support me as those who do. That's the job of the president. A duty of caring, caring for everyone. And you to have a sacred duty, if I may say, and that's to vote. It matters. Florida matters. In these final days stay empowered, stay optimistic, stay united. Make a plan and vote and help get out to vote. Visit iwillvote.com/fl. Return your ballot today if you haven't done it so far, or you can get to vote early in person through November 1st. But you've got to get out and vote and make sure everyone you know votes as well. Folks, there's nothing we cannot do from beating the NRA to restoring rationality and the climate. I'll never forget what President Kennedy said when he promised to send us to the moon in his speech. He said, "We're doing it because we refuse to postpone." That's what Americans do, refuse to postpone what is needed. I refuse to postpone my work america must do now. There's nothing, this is not hyperbolely, there is nothing beyond the capacity of United States of America. There's no limit to America's future. We're the only country in every crisis we've inherited, we've come out of it stronger than we went in it, because this is United States of America. And the only thing that can tear us apart is America itself. A president like Trump who appeals to our fears, president who pours gasoline in every flame he can find. Person who knows the only way he can win is if he divides us on race, nationality, national origin, gender. Look, everybody knows who Donald Trump is, we got to show them who we are. Article today in the press. I want to read a quote from. It says, "Never before in modern presidential politics has a candidate been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to depress the vote than Trump." He knows if you vote, he can't win. Why do you think they're spending so much time keeping black folks and brown folks and poor folks from being able to vote? Why making it so hard? Because he knows when America votes, they reject people like him. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division and we choose science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lies. So folks, it's time to stand up, take back our democracy. We can do this. We can be better than what we've been. We can be who we are at our best. As I said, the United States of America. There's nothing beyond our capacity. I promise you. I promise you. And I promise you if you elect me, when I'm wrong I'll acknowledge it. I'll take responsibility, but I tell you what, I'm going to unite this country and we're going to move like we haven't in a long time. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Cleveland. Whoa. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. And you guys can push the other something real quick, I tell you. Thank you very, very much. And Courtney, thank you for that introduction. And I want to thank Representative Marcia Fudge. We've been hanging out in the back here in the tent, along with  my parents before me and everyone else paying into Social Security. So go home and tell your parents and grandparents, what a great deal they're going to get if Trump gets reelected. But folks, the fact is I'm going to protect your Social Security. I guarantee it. Because I got people behind me who're going to make sure it's protected. We're going to protect Social Security, and we're going to have a situation where guess what? We have a majority in the United States Senate. Well, folks, look, the thing that's bothered me most, maybe emotionally bothered me the most, but substantively as well. That this president has done, there's been nothing worse than the way he's spoken about those who have served in uniform. He called you all losers and suckers. My son Beau was the attorney general of the state of Delaware. My son Beau volunteered. He had to give up the seat of attorney general to volunteer, to go to Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, the Conspicuous Service Medal, and he saw the people die in Iraq. He was not a loser. He was not a sucker, he was a Patriot, just like all your sons and daughters, parents, or grandparents who served. Folks, six generals who worked in the white house with the president of United States and admirals worked in his administration have since left. And they've said he is unfit to be Commander in Chief. Best of my knowledge, that's never happened before for any president of the United States. And that's why special operations commander Stanley McChrystal, as well as the commander special ops and the Navy Seals who took out Brin Laden, along Bill McRaven, Admiral McRaven, along with 22 other four stars, they've endorsed me saying they'd be proud to have me as their Commander in Chief. This president likes to portray himself as a tough guy, a macho man. When the last time you saw a president of United States, literally being laughed at by the world leaders when he spoke to the United Nations? I don't ever recall that ever happening. Can you believe when the president of United States, who acts like Vladimir Putin's puppy, Putin put bounties on the heads of American soldiers in Afghanistan. Trump spoke to him six times and he was too frightened to challenge him. Why? Donald Trump is not strong, he's weak. This is a president who not only doesn't understand sacrifice, he doesn't understand courage. Physical courage it takes for so many of you to put on that uniform. We must support our military. Let's make this vote for them as well. God love them. We have to vote to meet the challenge, the climate crisis as well. We can act to meet that climate crisis. Trump calls the climate crisis a hoax. I see it as a great opportunity to improve our health as well as great millions of good paying jobs. I see America's working to build and install 500,000 charging stations all across this country. American consumers switching to clean electric vehicles. We can own the electric vehicle market, creating minutes of jobs here in Cleveland and in Ohio and in Detroit. Folks, I see the federal government harnessing the purchasing power by buying these electric vehicles. Made in America, made in Ohio, made in Detroit, made in America- Made in Ohio, made in Detroit, made in America. It's going to mean one million, according to the experts, one million new good paying auto jobs in the automobile industry alone. Folks, if we don't act China's going to own the market. China's going to own it all. And we will act, in addition to deliver racial justice in America. Folks, protesting is not burning and looting, violence must never be tolerated and it won't, but these protests are a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake will soon not be forgotten. You know I've met with all these families. Well I met with Floyd's little girl, I think she was six years old. I knelt down to say, or to be at eye level with her. She looked at me and she said, I swear to God, said, "Mr. Vice President, my daddy is going to change in the world. My dad is going to change the world." Folks, I'm not going to forget. You're not going to forget. This country's not going to forget. This is going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. But guess what? Because we have the X generation, I mean the Z generation, that in fact is the most open, least prejudice, best educated generation in American history. They're already moving. They're already insisting on justice. They know who we are. A new wave of justice America, but also true justice isn't just about how they deal with police, it's about jobs. It's about building wealth. It's about families. It's about education. It's about opportunity. It's about being able to make a decent living. Nobody should have to work two jobs to stay out of poverty. That's why, honk if you agree with me that a $15 minimum wage is necessary nationwide. Honk. Honk, if you think assistance for a down payment, for a real shot of home ownership should be coming forward with me with $15,000 for first time homeowner, to start a small business, send the child to college debt-free. Folks, Ohio in 2008, 2012, you place your trust in me and Barrack. In 2020, I'm asking you to trust me again. I'm proud of the coalition this campaign is built. To welcome Democrats, Republicans and Independents. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I'll govern as an American president. There will be no red States and blue States, just the United States. And I promise you I'll work as hard for those who don't support me as those who do. That's the job of a president, to care, to care about everybody, everybody. That's the duty of a president. And look, you too, have a duty, a duty to vote. Folks, make a plan, go to Iwillvote.com/OH. Folks, the amazing thing about this moment in our history, on the one hand, we're facing the biggest threat of who we are, what we believe, and what we seen, what we've been in our lifetimes. Another hand, our future has never been more promising. I've said it many times, the character of America is literally on the ballot. The character of our country, but I'm more optimistic about America's future today than when I was elected to the United States Senate as a 29 year-old kid. Let me tell you why. We are better positioned than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Our workers are three times as productive as other workers. We have the biggest economy in the world. We have the strongest military in the history of the world. We have the most innovative entrepreneurs in the world and we are virtually energy independent. We have more great research universities in America than all the rest of the world combined, out of which all these doing inventions have occurred. No other nation can match us. We lead by the example of our power, not just by the power of our example. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself. And that's exactly what Donald Trump has tried to do from the beginning of his campaign, divide America. The only way he can win, separate us. Pit Americans against one another based on race, gender, ethnicity, national origin. It's wrong. It's not who we are, but it's his only prospect. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let's keep showing them who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction and yes, we choose truth over lies. Folks, it's time to stand up. It's time to take back our democracy. We can do this. We're so much better than this. We can be our best, ladies and gentlemen. This is the United States of America. There's not a damn thing we can't do, nothing. So let's get up and do it. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Minnesota. It's good to be back. As Amy was saying, I've been here a number of times up in the Iron Range, and it's a magnificent part of the world. Magnificent part of the world. And I want to thank you so much, Amy, Senator, you've been a great friend and a great, great Senator. And Senator Smith, you're something else, I'll tell you what. Thank you for the job you're doing, and I'm counting on it continuing for another six years. I know you're both fighting around the clock to take care of Minnesotans who are hurting in these multiple crises we face today. We have everything from COVID to unemployment, to a country that is being divided along racial lines. We have institutional racism we're dealing with. A whole range of things. And the people of Minnesota know that they have two of the best Senators in the country on their side. And Matt, thank you so much for that introduction and for showing me around today, this incredible apprentice program here at the Carpenters Training Center. What a lot of people don't know if they're not involved with labor is the apprenticeship program not only trains the best workers in the world, I'm not being facetious, that's a fact, but they get paid while they're doing it. Not full wage, but they're getting paid while they're doing it. And that's why these union apprenticeship programs are so, so critically important they stay this way. It matters. People who still make it while they're learning a trade, a trade that's going to put them in good stead the rest of their lives. It was great to see some of the practical hands-on experience that apprentices and journeymen and women here receive and while, as I said, earning a wage as a benefit. It's a bit quieter here than usual because of COVID-19 restrictions, but the pride of these workers who are learning the skills that will carry them throughout their careers is still unmistakable. My father, and I apologize to the press who follows me for repeating this, but it warrants saying every time, my dad used to have an expression. He said, "Joey, a job's about a lot more than a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect. It's about your place in the community." Then he'd end by saying, "It's about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it's going to be okay,' and mean it." That's the lesson I've never forgotten. It's the way I grew up surrounded by hard working families in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and a lot of steelworkers in Claymont, Delaware. All those jobs are gone now, those steel working jobs. And that's what I saw here at this training center, dedicated women and men investing in their dignity. In their dignity. Here in the Iron Range, we can see the resilience and the grit, the communities that built America, the metal they're made of. And fortified by the strength of union power, worker power. I think I was saying to you, Matt, that my dad had another expression, "The only way to deal with the abuse of power is with power," and the only real power for workers in America is union power. You're the folks who keep the barbarians on the other side of the gate, and making sure that people can make a decent living. And folks, but here like everywhere else, times are hard. Unemployment is way up due to the pandemic. Fewer workers can be on the job at one time in order to abide by social distancing roles. And the economic outlook for next year, including for the building trades, is more uncertain than it need be. Here in Minnesota and all across the country, there are plenty of folks who are hurting. They're worried about making their next mortgage payment or keeping their rent payments in check. They see the people at the top of the heap doing very well. An incredible number: billionaires in America during this pandemic have made another $300 billion. Hear what I just said? In the middle of the pandemic. They're left of wonder, as a consequence, ordinary folks, "Who's looking out for me?" That's been the entire story of Donald Trump's presidency. Now, in the midst of this unprecedented national crisis, Trump has given up on even pretending to do his job. Almost 200,000 lives lost in the last six months. And experts tell us now, the same studies the administration's relied on to predict what's coming next, that we're going to lose another 215,000 lives between now and January 1st. The United States has another 36,000 new COVID cases per day. Per day. Another average thousand deaths a day. Just across the border, figuratively speaking a stone's throw into Canada, one day earlier this month, the United States had a thousand deaths from COVID, Canada had zero. Just two days ago, three days ago, I believe it was, America had 1,200 deaths, Canada had nine. Nine. So many lives lost unnecessarily because the President is only worried about the stock market and his reelection. He refused to do what you're doing right here in this program, social distance, wear a mask, sanitize. You're protecting your apprentices. He's not protecting America. It's estimated by the scientists that if we just wore masks nationally, we'd save a hundred thousand lives between now and January 1st. Let me say that again. If we just wore a mask nationally, we'd save a hundred thousand lives between now and January, according to the same study. And it was estimated by a great medical school, Columbia medical school, that if the President had just started one week earlier in March than he did, we'd have 36,000 more people sitting at the dinner table tonight, or being able to put your arm around grandpa or grandma tonight. And again, in his own words, recorded by Bob Woodward, the President knew back in February that this was an extremely dangerous communicable disease. Think about it. How many people across the Iron Range, how many empty chairs around those dinner tables because of his negligence and selfishness? How many lies said and lives lost? Imagine if he had just, Amy, on the State of the Union that year, spoke up and said, "We got a problem. We can handle it. Here's what we got to do." I can't think of any president who's ever acted, in my view, so selfishly, about his own reelection instead of a sworn obligation to protect and defend the American people. As I said last night in my hometown, I view this campaign as between Scranton and Park Avenue. All Trump sees from Park Avenue is Wall Street. That's why the only metric of the American prosperity for him is the value of the Dow Jones. Like a lot of you, I spent a lot of my life with guys like Donald Trump looking down on me. Looking down on the people who make a living with their hands. People who take care of our kids, clean our streets. Maybe what bothers me most is when he talks about, reportedly talks about from too many sources confirmed by many outlets, when he's talked about the men and women who join the military and gave full measure for their country as "suckers" and " losers." Unless you think it's made up, remember how he talked about John McCain, a political opponent but a close friend who I did his eulogy. John McCain was no sucker or loser. He was a hero. My son who volunteered and spent a year in Iraq, won the Bronze Star , he wasn't a loser or sucker. He was a proud patriot. These are the guys who always thought they were better than me, better than us, because that a lot of money. Guys inherited everything they got and still managed to squander. I have to admit, which I guess is coming out and pretty obvious, particularly relative to Trump, I just have a little bit of a chip on my shoulder about these guys. … my shoulder about these guys. Recently, and I probably shouldn't have said it last night, but I did, recently I read some stories and was asked questions by leading columnists. It went like this. "If you get elected, you're going to be the first guy in a long time elected president without an Ivy League degree." Like somehow a kid who went to a state university isn't qualified to be president of the United States, doesn't have an Ivy League degree? Let me tell you something. I know how to do the job of being president. It's pretty clear. No matter how wealthy Donald Trump is, no matter how much he doctors his, if he does, his tax returns, he doesn't have a clue how to be president. One of the lessons my mother taught me, not a joke, long time ago taught me and my siblings, it's one that you probably were taught too out here in Minnesota. She said, "Joey, remember nobody's better than you, but everybody's your equal. Nobody's better than you. Everybody's your equal." You don't measure people by the size of their bank accounts. I don't respect people based on how big the house they live in is. I don't look down my nose when people are busting their necks just making a limit, nor do any of you. Trump says, by the way, I'm paraphrasing, everyone's in the stock market. That's why he cares about the stock market. What the hell is he talking about? People, I grew up in Scranton, Claymont, they don't have money in stocks. Every penny we made was to pay the bills and take care of the families, putting clothes in the back, and a roof over our head. In the market? That's why I have a different measure in which I judge the health of the American economy. And my measure is Scranton, Duluth, Harmontown, places where I grew up, that so many people I know grew up. I see hard working women and men who are just trying to earn an honest, decent living to take care of their families. I mean, just to have a little bit of confidence, a little bit of confidence, you can just see around the corner. And they don't have to live literally from paycheck to paycheck. Most do. But hope for a little bit of space. Now the American people have seen these women and men, the essential workers, workers who stock the shelves in the middle of these crisis in the grocery stores, drivers who drove the trucks, delivered the food, farm workers, nurses who risk their lives, in many cases, gave their lives in the middle of this pandemic to save other people. Essential workers. And when they walk down the streets and people come out and clap pans and pots together, tell them how much they're appreciated, that's not enough. They're not asking for anything, they're just asking for a shot. I remind you, given a shot, the American people have never, ever, ever, ever let their country down. So it's about time we start to pay essential workers for the fact that they're essential. Blinders have been taken off the American people. I think they're ready. They're ready to insist that the minimum wage be $15 an hour. They're ready to insist that people have childcare and access to it. They're ready to admit and understand the needs that average Americans have. That's why my Build Back Better plan, in fact, my entire campaign is built upon a simple concept. It's time to reward hard work in America, not wealth. Reward work, not wealth. We don't have to penalize wealth, it's the opposite now. Reward wealth and not work. We're going to have to rebuild an economy in the wake of COVID-19. And as we do, we have an incredible opportunity to make long overdue investments for working families. To make sure the wealthy, the very wealthy and big corporations finally began to pay their fair share. I'm not looking to punish anybody, just pay your fair share. It's time we give hard working families who literally built the country through their skills and their sweat and the blood, like the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, a leg up for once. I've a big ambitious plan that bets on the American worker. My plan is going to create millions of good paying jobs building the products and technologies that we need now and in the future. And it starts with a pretty basic idea. When the government spends taxpayers' money, we should spend that money to buy American products made by American workers in American supply chains to generate American growth and opportunity. My plan would tighten the rules to make buy American a reality. During my first term alone, we're going to invest $400 billion in federal money that you go out and spend, that I have control over as the president or an administration, to invest and purchase products and materials our country needs to modernize the infrastructure, to replenish critical stockpiles, to enhance our national security. I was just going through the apprentice program was one of your carpenters. And you're showing me how to read blueprints. And I'm a frustrated architect. I just love building. My kids years ago bought me a Lightboard. I have no professional training, but I like and I carry around a graph paper. I'm always making up and designing homes and landscapes. It's my way out. Some people can paint. I can't. And you're showing me the blueprints and how they can change several walls in a particular building to conserve and save energy. And he pointed out what you have to learn to be able to read a blueprint. I pointed out to him that my Buy American plan, he said, "By the way," not me, this carpenter said, "And by the way, we can kill two birds with one stone." He didn't use that phrase. He said, "We can do two things at once." He said, "We can improve the environment by using less energy to operate this building and create more jobs." And I said, "I'm going to send you a copy of my plan." I sent a college note exactly what it is. My Buy American Build America plan calls for literally what we started in our administration and couldn't finish, retrofitting four million buildings in America that are leaking millions of gallons of energy now. In the process, creating the four million jobs for skilled labor. Replacing windows, insulation that works, making sure that the unit is tight, including retrofitting two million homes. All of it done in a prevailing way with union labor, creating hundreds of thousands of union certified jobs. That's not hyperbole, that's a fact. That's how it will happen. And saving millions of barrels of oil in the process, improving our environment. That's why the IBEW and a lot of other unions support what we're doing. We're going to put in 500,000 charging stations along our highways. Why? So we can own, own, own the electric car market. Estimated creating a million new jobs in Michigan and Detroit in automobile industry. Look, we can outcompete anybody, we set our mind to it. My infrastructure plan is going to revitalize American infrastructure so the future is made in America. The president keeps talking about he's going to invest in infrastructure, right? How many times has he said when you guys were there he had a plan in '17, his infrastructure plan, it's coming? Then he had one in '18, then he had one in '19, then he has one for '20. Just like his nonexistent healthcare plan that's coming next week. He has no plan. When I got started, this wasn't a partisan issue, dealing with infrastructure. Republicans wanted to build solid infrastructure to make us first in the world, now we rank 28th, just like Democrats did. It was totally nonpartisan. And creating thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of good paying jobs. We're going to invest over time two trillion dollars to build resilient infrastructure. Roads, bridges, ports, right here along with these great Great lakes. 1.5 million new affordable housing units, high speed broadband for every American household. More important than ever as we are educating our children from home because he has no plan how to open our schools. 100 billion dollars to rebuild crumbling schools. How many schools in America do you think there are where you can't safely drink the water from the water fountain? Where they're worried about whether or not there is enough ventilation in the school, where there is leaking energy or still has hazardous materials in the walls. It's ridiculous. We should be spending the money to improve those schools and the safety of our children and our teachers. As I said, retrofitting four million buildings and weatherizing two million homes. And the way we do that is with the tax credits that we're giving them again. All done by certified union labor. Look, I'll fight for workers and unions at every step requiring all federal infrastructure projects to, one, pay prevailing wage, two, prioritize project labor agreements so collective bargaining is in place before the project starts, employee workers from registered apprenticeships. I won't water them down like Trump tried to do. Pass the PRO Act to crack down on employers who are trying to block or break unions. And I'll do it without raising anyone's taxes if you make less than $400,000 a year. I gave my a word as … You have nothing to worry about if you make less than 400. If you- This is why you have nothing to worry about if you make less than 400. If you make more, you're going to start to pay your fair share. No who makes less than 400 is going to pay a single penny more in taxes under our administration. In fact, tens of millions of middle class families are going to get tax cuts when they need it most, while you're raising your children, while you're trying to get affordable healthcare, buying your first home or saving for retirement. Almost directly after President Trump passed his tax bill in 2017, almost two-trillion dollars, increased the deficit, he went down to Mar-a-Lago and he said to his guests there, and this is a quote, it's on record: "You just got a lot richer," end of quote. He was right. They got a hell of a lot richer. How about the person making 50, 60, or even the family making $120,000 a year? How much did you get? How much richer did you get? It may be the only time he's told the plain truth, his entire presidency. In 2018, the year after that tax cut passed, 91 corporations in the Fortune 500 paid no income tax. Zero tax. Zero. Making billions of dollars, paid zero tax. I guess you guys got all your taxes eliminated too, right? He said he was going to lower the cost of prescription drugs. But guess what, instead of big pharma got billions of dollars in tax cuts, sent they're manufacturing of those drugs overseas, so they'd be cheaper for them to produce, unconscionably raised the prices for ordinary Americans. How many of you people knew your mother's, father's, uncle's, aunt's, friend's had to choose between getting the prescription, not a joke, and putting dinner on the table. Now he says he's going to try to cut drug prices, like he's going to have a healthcare plan. All he's done in this big thing about, he's calling it drug prices cut, all he's done, he sent to the HHS, Health and Human Services, he said, "Study the issue." I have a clear plan. I guarantee I'll lower prices in America for drugs by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices, which he said he would do. The House and the Senate were ready to do it, and he said he'd veto it if he got it. If you want to participate in the Medicare program, you've got to negotiate with Medicare for the price of that drug, which is significantly lower prices. And for any new specialty drugs that don't have competition that are launched, I'm setting up a review board to recommend a reasonable price based on the board's evaluation, and that price will not be able to be increased beyond the cost of medical inflation unless they can prove they've gone and done some more research and change the nature of the drug. Now, astonishingly, astonishingly, and when my staff told me this, I know both the senators knew this, but when they told me this, I said, "He can't be proposing this." He now is proposing in this budget another multi-billion dollar tax cut for the very wealthy millionaires and billionaires. Here's what he wants to do. He wants to lower the capital gains tax down to 15%. To 15%. Every one of you, including the reporters in this room, unless you're making a lot more than I think you are, every one of you is going to be paying at a higher tax rate than someone making a billion bucks off their investment. You're going to pay a higher tax rate, because they make their money by investing not by the sweat of your brow. Another tax cut worth billions of dollars. Whose hide do you think that's going to come out of? Where's it come from? The deficit is already bonkers. Where do you think it's going to come out of? It'll come out of you and the programs and things that help the American people. Like I said, it's about time we start rewarding work, not wealth. Look, I'm not looking to punish anybody, but dammit, it's about time the super wealthy and corporate America start paying their fair share. That's all it is. Just pay their fair share so hard work and families can start getting a break on childcare, elder care, buying that first home, and the cost of education beyond high school, being able to get started in life. By the way, all of this is going on while Donald Trump is trying to rip away your healthcare. This whole con: "I got a new healthcare program. I'm going to protect pre-existing conditions." He's in the Supreme Court saying get rid of pre-existing conditions. They should not. They shouldn't be able to stand in the way of you getting insurance because it helps insurance companies. And as a gimmick, he's got a new one. He's going to end the payroll tax that you pay in social security. Yet the actuary at the social security says if that were to occur, social security will be bankrupt by the middle of 2023. You may get a few more bucks in your paycheck, then go home and tell your mom and dad social security's about to come to an end. They never liked social security and Medicare to begin with. Look, we can't let this happen, that social security would run dry by 2023. We're so much better than this. This United States of America. We have never, ever, ever, ever been unable to do something when we've done it together. Never. It's time to stand up, Democrats and Republicans. I said it last night, and I know my colleagues know sometimes Democrats get mad at this, I'm running as a Democrat, but I'm going to be President of the United States, not President of the Democratic Party. We must unite this country. It's the only way we can move forward. I believe the American people are ready for it. I believe in half a dozen to a dozen of our Republican colleagues, who've been unable and unwilling to have the guts to take him on because he's so vindictive, with him gone I think they're ready to work. Not on everything, but an awful lot. It's time to take the country back, folks. It's going to start here, today with voting in Minnesota. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, thank you, thank you, thank you. Let me start off by thanking Sheila Jackson Lee for the passport into town. Thank you very, very much. Look, it's great to be back at Texas Southern University. Don't jump, I need you. Don't jump. As my mother would say, "God love you all." Thank you for coming out today. I had such a great time meeting with some of you outstanding students back in September. I warned you I was coming back and I'm back. I'm back. One of the finest America's historic black universities and colleges. Now, I got to tell you, I'm from Delaware. Delaware State University. I have to tell you, I always tell the truth, you're the second best. Delaware State University's the best , I promise you, will soon be over. We can and we must build a more perfect union. Because the American people have seen the alternative, so let's get back up. We're decent, we're brave, we're a resilient people. We can believe again. We're better than this moment and we're better than this president. So get up and let's take back this country. We're the United States of America. There's nothing we cannot do if we do it together. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Let's take it back now. Now. Now. Now. Thank you. Please welcome back to the stage, Lady Gaga. Please welcome business agent for Laborers' Union Local 1058, John Duffy. Whoa. Hello, Pittsburgh. I'm Jill Biden's husband and Lady Gaga's friend. We go back a while. One thing I wasn't going to say, but I'll said now, she spent a lot of time helping me with the Violence Against Women Act and helping so many women who needed help. God love you, you're wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Folks. John, thanks, old buddy, for sharing your story. And thanks to Mr. Mayor. I don't know where you are, I can't see out here, but I'll tell you what, thanks for the passport into town. And thanks for all the speakers we heard tonight, as well as the incredible, as I said, Lady Gaga. I don't know whether … You couldn't see, but all my grandkids are over there, Lady Gaga. And when you were singing, knew every word of every song. They were jumping and moving. I got to get a picture with them. Anyway. My buddy Congressman Mike Doyle, Governor Tom Wolf, thank you for standing with me and fighting for the dignity of working people. Everyone you've heard from across the state, as well as in Philadelphia, we hear you loud. We hear clearly. Congressman Boyle been with me a while. Remarkable, great friend and friend of his family. His dad and I grew up five blocks away from one another in Scranton. Bobby Casey, Patti LaBelle, and John Legend. My Lord, John, I'm voting for you after I heard that speech you made. Look at the second future gentleman, Doug. Doug, I love you. You are a good man. And I want to thank the next vice president of the United States, a woman I am so proud to be running alongside of, Kamala Harris. Look, I know as a Scranton boy and then raised on the border of Southern Pennsylvania in Claymont, Delaware, I know it's not always easy to bring Western and Eastern Pennsylvania together. But you know what, the Steelers got a big win yesterday, and the Eagles got a big win last night, so we can both be happy. And folks, I have a feeling we're coming together for a big win tomorrow. My Lord, there's a lot of you out here on this cold night. Thank you. And by the way, in the parking garage, don't jump. I need you. Don't jump. Folks, look, 18 months ago, we kicked off the campaign at Teamsters Local 249 right here in Pittsburgh. I chose Western Pennsylvania for my first stop as a candidate, and now for my last stop before Election Day, because you represent the backbone of this country. Hard work and families. We're asking nothing but a fair shot, an even chance. Ordinary people doing extraordinary things. The qualities that built this country, that created and sustain the middle class. And by the way, as I said twice earlier today, unions built the middle class. Look. We've been through a lot in this country since we announced. America is facing a confluence of crises unlike anything in living memory. We're still in the battle for the soul of America. Decency, honor, respect. Where has it gone with this president? Let me tell you something, folks. Tomorrow's the beginning of a new day. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has left hardworking Americans out in the cold. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has divided this nation and fanned the flames of hate. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has failed to protect this nation. Ladies and gentlemen, millions of Americans have already voted. Close to a hundred million. And millions more will vote tomorrow. And my message to you is simple: the power to change this country is in your hands. In your hands. I don't care how hard Donald Trump tries, there's nothing, nothing that's going to stop the people of this nation from voting, period. And when America votes, America will be heard. And America's heard. I believe the message to be loud and clear, it's time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home. I honest to God believe the vast majority of Americans are done with the chaos, the corruption, the failure, the irresponsibility, the indifference to American lives, the indifference to America's dignity. We've got a lot of work to do. Not division and distraction, but real, real, real healing of this country. If you elect me your president, I'm going to heal this country, and we're going to act. We're going to act to get COVID under control beginning on day one. I'll put in action a plan I've been talking about for months. Masking, social distancing, testing, tracing. A plan for full and fair and free distribution of therapeutics and a vaccine, when it comes. Imagine where we could be if the president only wore a mask from the beginning instead of mocked it. I can tell you this, as every expert will tell you, we wouldn't have 9 million COVID cases in this nation. We wouldn't have over 230,000 deaths and nearly a hundred thousand cases nationwide just two days ago. We wouldn't be facing another 200,000 predicted deaths in the next few months. That's what the experts are telling us. We don't change, 200,000 more people will die by the end of the year. The President knew in January, as Kamala said, that this virus was deadly, but he hid it from the American people. He knew it was worse than the flu, but he lied to us. He knew it wasn't going to disappear. He kept telling us a miracle was coming, it'd be over by Easter. Last Friday, he had the gall to suggest that America's doctors, who've been on the front lines of this crisis for nine months along with the nurses and so many other first responders, he suggested those doctors were falsely inflating the deaths due to COVID because they wanted more money. For God's sake. No, I really mean it. Think about it. Our frontline healthcare workers, they've suffered and sacrificed for nine months, and this president is questioning their character, their integrity, their commitment to their fellow Americans. It's a disgrace. And last night, Trump went on to say he was going to fire Dr. Fauci. Well, I've got a better idea. Let's fire Trump, and I'll hire Fauci. Think about it. Look, Donald Trump has waved the white flag of surrender. Remember he said, "I'm the commander- in-chief, and I'm going to fight this fight." Give me a break. He waved the white flag of surrender. I'll never surrender. We're going to beat this virus. We're going to get it under control. And the first step to beating this virus is beating Donald Trump. Folks. Well, let me tell you something. Donald Trump keeps telling us what a great jobs president he is. As we say in my faith, bless me, Father, for he has … I don't know. Jobs president. Here's the truth. Donald Trump is going to be the first president in 90 years, that's a lot of presidents, the first president in 90 years to finish his term in office with fewer jobs than when he started. An independent analysis, not from some liberal think tank, but by Moody's, a Wall Street firm, projects that my plan will create 7 million more jobs and a trillion dollars more economic growth than anything the President has proposed. Folks, we can do this. I'm going to end Trump's tax loopholes that incentivize companies to ship jobs overseas. That's why there's not as many jobs here. And I'm going to add a 10% surtax on any company that ships jobs overseas. But companies who invest in American manufacturing, bring jobs back, we'll give them a 10% tax credit. And by the way, president of the United States awards about over $600 billion of contracts a year because of everything from building aircraft carriers to all that we do, all the government spends. I promise you this, and it violates no trade agreement, there will be no government contracts given out on my watch that don't make all of their products here in America. The future will be right here in America, in Pennsylvania. Folks, Trump sees the world from Park Avenue, from Wall street. That's all he can see. Well, I see it from Scranton, where I grew up. I see it from Pennsylvania and Delaware. Wall Street didn't build this country; working people built the country, the middle class built the country, and unions built the middle class. My dad used to have an expression. He said, "Joe, the only way you can deal with the abuse of power is with power." Well, the only outfit that can deal with the abuse of power of corporate America are union power. That's the only way it can be dealt with. And I warn you all, if I'm elected, you're going to see the most pro-union president in American history sitting in the White House. Look. I believe we should be about rewarding work, not wealth. Under my plan, as Kamala said, if you make less than 400,000 bucks, you're not going to pay a penny more in taxes. But finally, finally, the wealthiest among us, the biggest corporations, 91 of which of the Fortune 500 paid zero in income tax, you're going to start paying your fair share. Why? Why should an iron worker, a firefighter, an educator, a nurse pay at a higher tax rate than the super wealthy? Folks, and here's a good one, why should you be paying more than Donald Trump pays in taxes? New York Times said he paid $750 in taxes one year. And guess what. When they asked him about it a little before that, he said the reason he only paid that is because he was smart, he knew how to game the system. Well, I'm sick of the wealthy guys gaming the system. Most are willing to pay their fair share, but let me tell you … By the way, he loves to talk about corruption. Oh, my Lord. He loves to talk about corruption. And you found out last week, he's the only person I've ever heard of has a secret bank account in China where he paid, according to the Times, 50 times more taxes in Beijing than he did in the United States. Folks, as my mother would've said, enough is enough is enough. Look. We're going to act to protect healthcare as well. Trump and the Republicans for the last 10 years have been trying like the devil to eliminate the healthcare plan. By the way, because of economic policies and so many companies going out of business, 10 million Americans have already lost their healthcare. And now Trump and the Republicans, they jam through a Supreme Court nominee for one overwhelming reason: they wanted to destroy the Affordable Care Act. If they get their way, by the way … This is not hyperbole. By the way, guess what's going to happen. Seven days after tomorrow, they're going to be in the Supreme Court arguing to wipe out, root and branch, all of the Affordable Care Act. Well, you can say that again because a lot of people are hurting. I can remember as a kid growing up in Claymont and Wilmington in a three-bedroom house, nice house, three-bedroom, split-level home with four kids and a grandpa. The walls were thin. I can remember one night, my dad, I could hear him restless in the room next to us, talking to my mom, and asking her the next morning, "What's the matter?" She said, "Your dad, we just lost our health insurance." How many people you know, staring at the ceiling, wondering what in God's name are they going to do without health insurance? How many of them? How many … … without health insurance, how many of them? How many of them are worried like we were when our son came home from Iraq and was lying dying? I wonder what I would have done had they been able to come in, but for Obamacare and say, "Sorry, sorry, suffer the last month in the hospital in peace without your insurance, you've outrun your insurance." How many people do you know? And many of you worry about it, worry about your kids, worry about what's happening. Well, if they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for pre-existing conditions, including five million Pennsylvanians. It's wrong. It's wrong. Donald Trump, look, folks, being a great consumer of healthcare I feel very strongly about this. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it's a right. I'll not only restore healthcare, I'll build on it. You can keep your private insurance if you have it, or you can choose a Medicare like option. We're going to increase subsidies to lower your premiums and deductibles, out of pocket spending, surprise billings. How are you going to do that? Because Trump and his buddies are going to pay more taxes so you don't have to do more. And we're going to reduce, if it didn't sound so strange I wouldn't even explain, you're going to reduce prescription drug costs by 60%. You know how? By making sure Medicare can negotiate with the insurance companies for the cost of drugs. We're going to make sure you keep the protections for pre-existing conditions. Meanwhile, these guys are for real, unfortunately. Meanwhile, Trump's announced what he'll do if he gets re-elected with regard to social security. The actuary of social security has said if Trump were elected and gets passed what he wants it will bankrupt social security by 2023. Now, you all may think I'm making it up. But just like I said when Paul Ryan was the Speaker of the House. I said, "They're going to cut Medicare," and everybody looked, "No, no." They tried to cut it by $5 billion right off the bat. Folks, these guys are serious. They've never fully supported these programs. I'll protect social security, Medicare and Medicaid. You have my word on it. But folks, as we used to say in the Senate, if you excuse a point of personal privilege, there's nothing that has made me more angry about this President than the way he's spoken about those of you have served in uniform. Losers and suckers, he referred to you. Our son, Beau, his two children are with me tonight, he gave up his job as Attorney General to volunteer to go to Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, the Speaker's Service Medal, he came home with brain cancer. And guess what? He wasn't a sucker. He was a patriot like all of your sons and daughters. It angers the hell out of me the way he talks about our veterans. Your parents, your grandparents, all who have served. To the best of my knowledge, he's the first President of the United States who has six generals and admirals who worked in his administration who have since left and said he was unfit to be Commander-in-Chief. Folks, that's my General Stanley McChrystal, a former commander of special operations who oversaw the Bin Laden raid, Admiral Bill McRaven, and 22 other four stars endorsed me because they know I'll have their back. It's not happened before. Trump likes to portray himself as a tough guy, the macho man. Wouldn't you like to have a shot? Anyway, the macho man. And he says people listen to him because he's tough around the world. When's the last time you ever heard of a President of the United States literally being laughed out loud by world leaders when he spoke with United Nations? So much for listening to him. When was the last time a President of the United States met with the NATO leaders at the NATO Summit, other world leaders, chancellors, presidents, prime ministers, and before they realize it, they were all making fun of him as he left the room? Folks, and can you believe we have a President who acts like Vladimir Putin's puppy? Putin put bounties on the heads of American soldiers in Afghanistan, where I've been to many times. It's a rough area, man. But Trump has talked to him six times since then and he's been frightened to say or challenge him at all. Donald Trump isn't strong, he's weak. This is a President who not only does it not understand sacrifice, doesn't understand courage, physical courage it takes to be in uniform. Folks, we're going to support our military. They're the backbone and spine of this country. Folks, we have to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis. Donald Trump calls it a hoax. I call it about our health and the ability to create millions of good paying jobs right here in Western Pennsylvania. We can combat climate change with American ingenuity and manufacturing, creating millions of new high paying union jobs. Let me be clear, I will not ban fracking in Pennsylvania. I'll protect those jobs, period, no matter what Donald Trump says. But I tell you what, I will, I will no longer fund oil companies with subsidies, period. Folks, we have to restore the backbone of this country, but we also have to unify. Look, we're going to act to deliver racial justice in America. Protesting is not burning and looting. The violence will not be tolerated. But the protests, there's a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, Walter Wallace, they're not going to be soon forgotten by me, not by anyone in this country. And they're going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. When I met with Floyd's family, when I went down to Texas, he has a little daughter, six years old, and I was in the room and I knelt down to talk to her. She looked at me and she said, "Mr. Vice President," she said, "my daddy is going to change America. My daddy is going to change America." Well, guess what? We also know that the American people realize we've got to change. We also know that justice isn't just about criminal justice, it's about knowing the true justice about jobs and building wealth for your families. No one should be working two jobs to stay in poverty. We need a minimum of $15 an hour minimum wage. And for people struggling, first term home buyers, they're going to get a $15,000 tax credit from me. We're going to provide capital for young entrepreneurs to start small businesses, provide free community college, which by the way, costs a lot of money, six billion a year. We spend about that much money giving breaks out for race horses, folks, as well as free tuition for students attending state universities if they come from families making less than 125 grand. Folks, we can do this, Pennsylvania. In 2008 and 2012, you placed your trust in me and Barack. In 2020, I'm asking you seeking your trust again. I take nothing for granted. This is a battle for the soul of America. We have to win this. We have to win this together. Bring the country together. I'm proud of the coalition this campaign has built, welcoming Democrats and Republicans and independents. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American President. There will be no red states and blue states. There'll be the United States of America. I promise you I'll work as hard for those who don't support me as those who do. That's the job of a President, the duty to care for everyone, the duty to heal. That's the President's job. So please vote. If you still have your absentee ballot, get into a drop box as soon as you can or vote tomorrow in person. Just make a plan and help get out the vote. The power is in your hands, Pennsylvania. And here's the amazing thing, here's the amazing thing about this moment in our history, the character of the country is on the ballot. On the one hand, we're facing the biggest threats to who we are and what we believe that we've seen in our lifetimes. But on the other hand, our future has never been more promising. I've said it many times. I'm more optimistic about America's future today than I was when I got invited and got elected as a 29 year old kid. And here's why, we're in a better position than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Fact, our workers are three times as productive. We have the biggest economy in the world, the strongest military in the history of the world, the most innovative entrepreneurs. We're virtually energy dependent. We have more great research universities, out of which every major new changes come, than all the rest of the world combined, literally. No nation in the world can match us. We lead by the power of our example, not just example of our power. The only thing that can tear America part is America itself. No one else can challenge us. And that's exactly what Donald Trump has been doing from the beginning of this campaign, dividing America, tearing us apart, pitting Americans against one another based on our race, our gender, our ethnicity, our religion. It's wrong. That's not who we are. And folks, everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let's keep showing them who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lie after lie after lie. Folks, it's time to stand up and take back our democracy. We can do this. We can be better than what we've been. We can be who we are at our best, the United States of America. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Kingswood Community Center. Actually, that's the one down I used to work as a joke. I didn't know where you were. Anyway, it's great to be here and back at a place where, I want to thank Wayne Jefferson for having us here at the Hicks Anderson Center.  And so there ought to be a system whereby and which I proposed, is that you can lay out the details of what you're doing in your business and be able to put a sign out that says it's safe, I've met all the standards. But the idea that we're just going to say open up and people are going to show up. They're not. They're not. Well, it seem to me, that it's probably not going to be what happened based on what the leagues themselves are saying. I mean, you have the Marlins saying, "We can't do it," so many people. So I think they should just follow the science. The one thing that seems to work a little bit, I don't know, is basketball, where no one's traveling. They're all sequestered in one place. It's like, look, all of you have families, moms, dads, et cetera. If they come from another state, you go from wherever you are to their state, well you should be quarantining before you go see them, up to 12 days. Think about it. The United States of America, you can't travel to a whole hell of a lot of European countries. You can't get in a plane and go there. Don't come. You're a danger to us. It's because we're not following the science. And there's very little transparency on what's going on. But I have confidence at the end of the day … When you have a lot of football players turning down eight, 10 million bucks a year and say, "I'm not going to take the risk of playing," You got to listen, you got to listen. So I'm not going to apply it on every sport. But it seems to me that when you have to travel, when you have to be in hotel rooms or places that are different than you've been the day before, when you are in a position where you're going into an area where there is a high concentration of the spread of COVID, all those things add up to a real problem. And we're not going to really overcome that until we follow science and get a vaccine. But I want to say it again, I'm going to keep saying it. The president, as we speak, should be starting and should have started three months ago to put someone in charge of how specifically, like waging a war. How are you going to distribute the vaccine when it arrives, when it arrives, when it's there? And the question of whether it's real, when it's there, that requires enormous transparency. You got to make all of it available to other experts across the nation, so they can look and see. So there's consensus, this is a safe vaccine. Because already you have, what percent is American people saying if the vaccine were there tomorrow, they wouldn't take it? And it's not the usual anti-vaccine crowd it's beyond that because people are losing faith in what the president says. Think about it. The words of a president matter significantly. They can, as I said before, take us to war. They can bring peace. They can rise up and cause the market to rise, they can do good things, but people listen to what a president says. And if a president repeatedly says things to you that are not true and then comes the time when they say I have something that I think can cure you, but it could really hurt you. You're not going to listen to the guy who's been lying you along the way. Anyway, thank you so much. Appreciate the time and I'm getting out of your hair. Thank you. … that's a higher rate than these guys pay for their capital gains. Now, look, going on too much. Let me conclude and go to questions because here's the deal, and we can do questions. By the way, I will not be offended when I stop if you all leave. I don't mean you have to stay, but I really appreciate you coming. Let me end my formal remarks or informal formal remarks. On the following note: Folks, when I got elected to the United States Senate, I was 29-years old. Thank you, man. I was 29-years old. I wasn't old enough to be sworn in as a U.S. Senator. For real. I had to wait 17 days to be constitutionally-eligible to be sworn in. I'm the first United States Senator I ever knew, Lieutenant Governor, the first one I ever knew. You think I'm joking. I'm not. I mean, I didn't know anybody by their first name before that. I come from, like a lot of you do, fairly modest means. We weren't poor, but when my dad lost work in Scranton, there was nothing there. We moved down to a little steel town called Claymont, Delaware. It took three years, but my dad finally got us a house and we lived in what is now Section Eight housing, was Section Eight housing. There wasn't any Section Eight then. My dad was able, he got us a lovely home in a suburban neighborhood. It was three bedrooms, split-level house, four kids with a grandpop living with us. It wasn't like I came from money, but I came from principal. I came from moms and dads who believed that the only important thing was that you just go out there and do your best. The quote they'd always used was, "Joey, measure of success is not whether you get knocked down, how many times you get knocked down. It's how quickly you get up." Just get up, get up. Well, folks … I really mean this. It's time for America to get up. We are so much better. I am more optimistic about America's chances in the 21st century than I've ever been in my entire life. My word. We have the most productive workers in the world. Our workers are three times as productive as workers in Asia. Fact. We're the wealthiest nation in the history of the world and will remain that if in fact we invest in our people and not in a few and send the money overseas. We also are in a position where, I've met every major world leader, not a joke, not because I'm important because the nature of my job. I was Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee so I had that responsibility internationally and the reason why Barack picked me to be vice president was because of my background in international affairs and my ability to know how to work the United States Congress. They're the two reasons I got picked. I've met every major one. I've never met one single leader in the world, not a joke, who wouldn't trade places in a heartbeat with the President of United States or the problems the president has. They pale by comparison. I got criticized by some, including in this among the 800 people running for the nomination, for saying I wasn't worried about China. I'm not worried about China if we do our job, if we invest in our people. China, I spent more time with Xi Jinping, the leader of China, than any world leader has, at least up to the time we left office because Barack wanted me to get to know him. I traveled 17,000 miles with him. I had 25 hours of private meals with him, with an interpreter. By the way, my interpreter handled all his notes in after the meetings. Yeah, kind of strange thing, huh? Transparency's turned out to be a really rare deal. But anyway, He'd ask profound questions. He doesn't have a democratic, meaning small D, democratic bone in his body, but he's a smart guy. He'd asked me questions like, "Do you really control your military?" Not a joke, because no president of the country has ever controlled the military in China. It was controlled by the party, not the president. "What do governors do?" Because governors have no authority to move on their own in China and so on. One night we're in a place called Chung Du, a town of almost 20 million people on the Tibetan plateau, and I have an interpreter whispering in my ear and in his. He looks at me, he says, "Can you define America for me?" "Xi, I can one word," and I meant it, "possibilities." We have always believed in America anything is possible. Anything. Anything. Anything. Anything. Anything is possible. Folks, in China, just to give one example, in China, and I don't say this with any satisfaction, in China more people are going to die of cancer in the '20s, from 2020 to 2030, than all the rest of the world combined. Fact. Any of you oncologist in here or docs, you can verify that, or you can Google it if you want to. The fact is that's a fact. Number two, they don't have enough water. W-A-T-E-R. Potable water, which Nevada has to be a little concerned about as well, I might add, long term. But they're talking about spending hundreds of billions of dollars to try to change the direction of their rivers so they can get water. Whose estimate, if you take between 35 and 42% of the land, the arable land, in China is blue with cadmium. They can't grow things. They have a million Uyghurs Muslims in concentration camps in the West. You see what's happening, going on in Hong Kong. Folks, there's not a country in the world that can compete with us. If we focus on who we are, so it's time to get up and take back this country and move it in the direction we have to go. Thank you all very much. How much time do I have to take questions, I wonder? Okay. If you ask me easy questions, I'll give you quick answers. No, but by the way, if they're essays, then I'm going to give you shorter answers to get it about, we got about, they tell me the commitment with the school here, we have about another 10 to 15 minutes. But let me begin. Sir, go ahead. Well, that's a good question. He complimented me very highly and then said, "What the hell's the matter with your campaign?" That's a good question. No, it's a legitimate question. Thank you. Number one, when they did all the cross-tab stuff, one of the foremost difficult states for me to win was going to be in Iowa because … and they're good people … it's all white, and it's all the Midwestern Islam, and it's a lot of farming. But we did okay, if you take a look at what happened there. I mean, it was kind of a unusual thing that I hope doesn't happen here. No, I mean in terms of the actual running of the caucus, how it worked out. But number two, look, my support in the Democratic Party, and all the data's still shows it, we'll see, is that I am a candidate who has the broadest support from all sectors of the economy. For example, I have had historically overwhelming support from the African-American community. I mean 75% favorable ratings, support because I come out of the Civil Rights movement. If you take a look, the only presidents who've ever beaten an incumbent president in this century are, the Democrats, were Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. They had overwhelming support from African-American community. You can't win, in my view, without that happening. I'm heading to South Carolina from here. Secondly, we're in a situation where there is, I've had overwhelming support from, at the same time, working class, high school educated whites because, out of Pennsylvania. The reason I was picked to be on Barack's ticket was the data showed that how much, how popular I was in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and the states we've lost including Michigan and so on. I have more support in that group than anybody does. Thirdly, I have significant support across the board, particularly including with the burgeoning Latino community of the United States of America. In my state of Delaware, for example,  Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it very, very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I need your help. Good afternoon, everyone. Let me say to the press assembled, I'm going to make a short statement here, and then I'm going over to vote with my wife and then I'll be happy to take your questions after I vote. Okay? I just completed in here another public health briefing with my team of public health experts. We looked at the latest reported data on how it indicates that we're on an upward slope of a bigger wave of confirmed infections than anything we experienced to date. We talked about what actions would be needed to turn this around and how it will be made worse by this administration's declaration of surrender to the virus. And we discussed again, the vital importance of wearing masks, of protecting yourself, protecting your neighbor, and to save around a 100,000 lives in the months ahead between now and just after the first of the year. This is not political, it's patriotic. Wearing a mask, wear one, period. We focused on the way this virus is hitting communities of color much harder, particularly black, Latino and Native American communities. We're seeing race-based disparities across the aspects of this virus, higher infection rates, but lower access to testing and harder time quarantining safely because of their financial circumstances. Lower access to quality treatment, when they are infected and tragically higher mortality rates. One in 1,000 black Americans have died from this virus. This is a staggering statistic and 57% of black adults, 46% of Latino adults know someone who has died or been hospitalized from disease. Folks, we've lost more than 220,000 lives to this virus already. But this administration has just given up. Over the weekend, the White House, chief of staff Mark Meadows, went on television and admitted that they've waived the white flag and declared surrender. He said quote, "We're not going to control the pandemic." End of quote. The American people deserve so much better than this. Just look at what happened last night in Omaha, after the Trump rally ended. Hundreds of people, including older Americans and children were stranded in sub-zero freezing temperatures for hours. Several folks ended up in the hospital. It's an image that captures President Trump's whole approach to this crisis. He takes a lot of big pronouncements and he makes a lot of big pronouncements, but they don't hold up. He gets his photo op and then he gets out. He leaves everyone else to suffer the consequences of his failure to make a responsible plan. It seems like he just doesn't care much about it. And the longer he's in charge, the more reckless he gets, it's enough. It's time to change. Meanwhile, yesterday, the White House science office and this stunned me, put out a statement listing ending the COVID-19 pandemic as a top accomplishment of President Trump's first term. Top accomplishment of Trump's first term. At the very moment when infection rates are going up in almost every state in our union, the refusal of the Trump administration to recognize the reality we're living through at a time when almost a 1,000 Americans a day are dying. Every single day is an insult to every single person suffering from COVID-19 and every family who's lost a loved one. There's nothing more personal. There's nothing more personal to an American family than their health care and the health care of their loved ones. I know all too well what it feels like to have your heart ripped out, losing a loved one too soon. To sit in the hospital bedside and feel like there's a black hole in the middle of your chest, knowing there's not much you can do. I and many of you know what it feels like to watch a beloved person die, why they're dying of cancer or some other disease without having to wonder about whether you're can pay for the medical bills or what would happen if God forbid the insurance companies were able to come in and say, " We're not going to cover the treatment." And yet today, President Trump is on a single-minded crusade to strip Americans of their health care. That would only create another enormous crisis in the public health system. In two short weeks, exactly one week after the election, the Trump administration will make its case, asking the Supreme Court to strike down the Affordable Care Act quote, "In its entirety." In its entirety. Let me say that again. They're arguing that the entire law must fall, which would strip 20 million Americans have their health insurance overnight, rip away protections for pre-existing conditions for more than 100 million people in the middle of an upswing of a pandemic, the upswing. Look, just this week on 60 Minutes, we heard what Trump told Lesley Stahl about the upcoming Supreme Court case on the Affordable Care Act. And I quote, "I hope that they end it'll be so good if they end it." End of quote. There is no question. There's no question. That's why President Trump nominated Justice Barrett to the court. And that's why the Republicans jammed her through confirmation in the middle of the election. Republicans have tried and tried and tried since the Affordable Care Act was passed to overturn it. And every single time they failed. President Trump has tried everything he can on his own to sabotage the law. So now through what I'd characterize as a craving abusive of political power. They've added to the Court of Justice who criticized Chief Justice, Roberts' previous decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act in hopes that they can destroy the Affordable Care Act once and for all through the courts. No matter how many Americans they hurt in the process. So let's remember exactly what's at stake in this election. If you have diabetes, asthma, cancer, or even complications from COVID-19, you're going to lose the protection this law provides. Insurers will once more be able to jack-up your premiums or deny your coverage. Women could again be charged more for their health care just because they're women and children will no longer be able to stay in their parents' insurance policies until age 26. On top of all that, overturning the ACA could mean that people have to pay to get COVID-19 vaccine once it's available. That's right. That's right. The law that says insurers are required to cover vaccines for free is the Affordable Care Act. And he's striking that down, attempting to. Unlike Donald Trump, I believe health care isn't a privilege, it's a right that everyone have access to it? This country can't afford four more years of a president who thinks he's only responsible for the wellbeing of the people who voted for him. We can't afford four more years of a president who instead of fighting the virus, attacks doctors. I can't get over the guy. He attacked doctors claiming their over-reporting COVID cases because they want to make more money. Doctors are over-reporting cases because they want to make money. Our doctors and nurses and our frontline health care workers are putting themselves at enormous risk every day. More than a 1,000 of them have already died in attempt to beat back this pandemic and save lives. They deserve to be treated with respect by their president. We can't afford four more years of a president who'd rather spend his time desperately trying to strip people of their health care, and even once bothered to put forward a health care plan on his own. We can't afford four more years of Donald Trump. And the good news is we have a chance to turn this around by voting. We have six more days left in this election and the American people have it in their hands to put this country in a vastly different path. This is my commitment to you. I'll protect and build on the Affordable Care Act, so that you can keep your private insurance or choose a Medicare like option. You can make it stronger. I'm going to make it stronger with your help to lower premiums and deductibles. And out-of-pocket expenses. We'll bring down drug prices, but almost two thirds by taking steps such as allowing Medicare to negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies who are making billions of dollars, making the price lower. When they negotiate, Medicare says, "We're only going to pay you X amount for the following medicines." That will lower prices drastically making it available to everyone. We're going to make sure every American has access to free COVID-19 vaccine. This isn't beyond our capacity. Now, if we come together, we can stand together. If we stand together as the United States, the United States, Democrats, Republicans and independents. We can transcend all divisions and show what's possible. There's nothing beyond our capacity. There's no limit to America's future. And if I'm elected president, as I said yesterday in Warm Springs, Georgia. I'll be a president who is not in it for himself, but for others. A president of doesn't divide us, but unites us. A president who appeals not to the worst in us, but to the best in us and a president who looks not to settle scores, but to find solutions. A president guided not by wishful thinking, but by science, reason and facts. Even if I win, it's going to take a lot of hard work to end this pandemic. I'm not running on the false promise of being able to end this pandemic by flipping a switch. But what I can promise you is this, we will start on day one doing the right things. We'll let science drive our decisions. We will deal honestly with the American people and we will never, ever, ever quit. That's how we'll shut down this virus. So we can get back to our lives, a lot more quickly than the pace we're going at now. I'm going to fight to protect your health care, I promise you. Just like I fight for my own family. We can do this. I promise you, and I'm going to go do what I hope all of you do. I'm going to walk out of this building and I'm going to go vote. I'm going to go vote. There's a lot of people on that ballot, not just me, but the down-ballot as well, that are going to change things for us. Make it better. So may God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. It's great to be here in Michigan and with the United auto workers. As they say, in parts of my state, I got brung up on General Motors. My father ran a General Motors agency. He didn't own it, but he ran it and cars or cars or cars. By the way, I still have my '67 Corvette that's new. It was new. I still keep that, but I got to tell you, I'm waiting for that electric one you just made that goes 210 miles an hour, but that's a different story. Look, earlier this week and the reason we're a little bit late here, we found as I was getting off the plane, the press asked me a legitimate question that I did not have the background on because it occurred on the plane. Earlier this week, we celebrated Labor Day. And here in the heart of the American automobile industry, we never forget everything that we owe the unions. And unions, as you've heard me say many times, built this country. Unions built the economy. The economic engine has driven American manufacturing dynamism. And literally in the case of the auto workers, you're the ones that did it. So I want to thank you again, UAW region one, for hosting me today. And it's great to see Senator Stabenow. My good friend, Debbie Stabenow. Got a chance to spend a little time with the governor, but Senator Stabenow and I worked together on an awful lot of matters over the years in the United States Senate. She was a great partner to me when I was vice president and we worked in lockstep to get the people in Michigan back on their feet. We're joined by one of the best and brightest and hardest working governors around, my friend, Gretchen Whitmer. And if you're wondering what responsible strong executive leadership looks like in COVID-19, just look at this executive right here. Governor, you've done an incredible job steering the people of Michigan through a turbulent time. Much of it is brought on by Donald Trump's lack of leadership. You've been rock solid, governor. You've listened to the experts and you've led with science and you put the needs of the people, who are hurting first, helping them get through this crisis. Meanwhile, on the day that we hit 190,000 dead in the United States, because of COVID-19, we just learned from the Washington Post columnist Bob Woodward that the president of the United States has admitted on tape in February he knew about COVID-19 that had passed through the air. He knew how deadly it was. It was much more deadly than the flu. He knew and purposely played it down. Worse, he lied to the American people. He knowingly and willingly lied about the threaded pose to the country for months. He had the information. He knew how dangerous it was. Now, while this deadly disease ripped through our nation, he failed to do his job on purpose. It was a life and death betrayal of the American people. Experts say that if he had acted just one week sooner, 36,000 people would have been saved. If he acted two weeks sooner, back in March, 54,000 lives would have been spared in March and April alone. His failure has not only costs lives. He sent our economy in a tailspin. It costs millions more in American livelihoods. This is a recession created by Donald Trump's negligence. And he is unfit for this job as a consequence of it. How many schools aren't open right now? How many kids are starting a new school year the same way they ended the last one at home? How many parents feel abandoned and overwhelmed? How many frontline workers are exhausted and pushed to the limits? And how many families are missing loved ones at their dinner table tonight because of his failures? It's beyond despicable. It's a dereliction of duty. It's a disgrace. We're going to hear a lot more about this. I'm sure, not just from me, but from the news media and a lot of others, but I want to ask you one simple question. What's the value of a promise? What's it worth? What's the worth of a woman or man's word, of a president's word, if it's not matched with action? In 2016, then candidate Trump came here to Warren just a few days before the election. Here's what he said. He said, "If I'm elected, you won't lose one plant. You have plants coming into this country. You're going to have jobs again. You won't lose one plant. I promise you. I promise you." That's what he said. Donald Trump makes a lot of promises. He promised that he alone could stop the off shoring of jobs. He promised he bring back jobs, stop companies from leaving. He could do what, "Nobody else could do it, but him." Nut he promised it has administration would enforce every last buying American provision on behalf of the American people. And what makes his wild claims and hopes, he now hopes we don't notice what he said or won't remember. And when he does follow through or doesn't do with follow through the exact opposite, he's hoping we just have poor memories. He doesn't give us much credit, but the American people are smart, honest, decent, and they're hard working. And we expect our president to be straight with us, to do what he or she says they're going to do. So let's look at the reality of Donald Trump's economy and what exactly his promise to the American people and workers are worth. He's on track to be the first president since Herbert Hoover in the Great Depression to see the number of jobs in our economy go down, not up while being president. Our economy's down 4.7 million jobs since he took office, 4.7. Even before President Trump's failed response to COVID-19 crashed through our economy, his reckless and chaotic trade policy had thrown American manufacturing into recession. It was already contracting in 2019, even when COVID-19 hit, before it hit. Trump was creating an average of 500,000 jobs fewer per year than the last three years when President Obama and I were an office. When the GM transmission plant here in Warren close last year, I bet the workers around weren't all that comforted by Trump's empty promises. Under Donald Trump, Michigan lost auto jobs, even before COVID did. And what about off shoring? Has Trump delivered on stopping companies from shipping jobs overseas, American jobs? You already know the answer. Of course not. The rate of offshoring by federal contractors, there are people that get federal dollars from the federal government to do things. The off shoring, big companies being paid by US Taxpayers has doubled, doubled under Trump. Those federal contracts with your tax dollars. They've doubled the number that had been off shored. He invited companies to the White House to make what he called the pledge to American workers. He couldn't even keep those firms from outsourcing. Many were given lucrative federal contracts, but then some of them turned around and shipped 7,000 jobs overseas. Under President Trump, US trade deficit has grown. It's hit an all time high. Let me say that again. US trade deficit is at an all time high under Trump in the last three years. President Trump's answered all this as the same as he's answered everything. Corporate tax giveaways that actually ward off shoring. You heard me right. Giveaways that reward offshoring. If you offshore, you get more tax breaks. His 2017 tax bill slashed taxes on companies that sent production and jobs overseas. Those corporations then make huge profits by shipping these foreign made products back to the United States to sell to American consumers. And no industry has taken a greater advantage of Trump's offshoring tax loopholes than the pharmaceutical industry. Big pharma lobbied Trump for a handout. That's exactly what they got from him. US pharma is building factories overseas instead of the United States, skipping out on having to pay US taxes and then sending those same foreign made drugs back to American consumers, all while raising their prices on prescription drugs that union families and working people have to rely on. And in the process by the way, he's trying to do away with all healthcare in America. During a pandemic, we're seeing not only the inequity of this policy, but the enormous vulnerability that this creates for our own health security. And our security requires us to have supply chains of the necessary drugs based here, not overseas. Not overseas in times of crisis. And what about Trump's commitment to buy American? Like the rest of President Trump's promise it has nothing to do with reality. It's all a bunch of hot air. In fact, contracts awarded by US governments to foreign companies using American tax dollars went up 30% since he's been president. So to recap, one, Trump hasn't stopped companies from closing plants and sending jobs overseas. Two, he's rewarded companies that have cut jobs and failed to invest here at home with billions of dollars in tax breaks. And three, he's awarding more and more federal contracts to foreign companies. President Trump has broken just about every promise he's ever made to the American worker. And he's failed. He's failed our economy and our country. But look, would you really expect anything different from this guy? From someone who called those of you and those who are serving in uniform, who have given their lives to the country losers and suckers? Let me tell you something. My son Beau is an assistant US attorney. He volunteered to go to Kosovo to help them set up a government in the middle of the war. I know I'm being proud here, but he's the only foreigner has a monument that they raised and built in service to him, thanking him for what he did. My son also then as attorney general volunteered to go to Iraq for one year. He wasn't a loser or a sucker. No one who served this nation has been a loser or a sucker. They're all heroes. Or would you expect anything different than someone who could stand next to a father of a fallen soldier and say at a cemetery and say, "I don't get it. What was in it for them?" What was in it for them? Donald Trump does understand what it means to serve something bigger than yourself. He doesn't understand duty, honor, country. He lives by a different code. Lies, selfishness, greed. Yes, Donald Trump and I have a pretty different philosophy when it comes to giving our word. Mine means something. When I tell the American people I'm going to do something, I follow through. Here in Michigan, you know that's true. When Barack and I took office back in 2009, the economy was crashing. We inherited an economy in free fall. And millions of Americans, including so many right here in Michigan, lost their jobs, their homes, and their savings. With the help of Debbie breaking her neck here, President Obama and I worked hard. He put me in charge of the Recovery Act. I spent a lot of time here in Michigan and Detroit, working with you and Senator Stabenow, and thinking every single day about the folks on the factory line, busting their necks, just trying to put food on the table. A lot of folks were all ready to count Detroit out as well as the auto American industry to count it out. But I knew what Debbie knew. I've known always. It's never a good bet to bet against the American worker. So when we promise to stand with the American auto industry, we delivered. We didn't do it to help wealthy investors or pad bonus checks for CEOs, we did it to save an iconic American industry, a testament to the skills and ingenuity of American manufacturing. And the jobs of hundreds of thousands of American workers and the lifeblood of communities all across the Midwest, and used to be in my state of Delaware as well. When Detroit declared bankruptcy, I was right here working alongside the city leaders to get the lights turned back on to revitalize the future of Detroit. Well, nearly 20,000 auto manufacturing jobs have been lost in Michigan under Trump. Nearly 80,000 were created during the Obama Biden administration. I've got long history. I'm not just talking about what I'm going to do, but delivering results for Michiganders. And now, we need to do it again. We need to do the hard work, not only to recover, but to build the economy back for the future once more. That's why my build back better agenda, that's what it's all about. Starts right here with you in the union halls, all across America. Back in July, I made the first plank in my agenda a plan to modernize American manufacturing and technology to ensure that the future is made in America, by all of you. And today, I'm announcing some additional steps to make this plank even stronger. First, we're going to impose a tax penalty on companies that avoid paying US taxes by off shoring jobs and manufacturing, only to sell those goods back to the American consumer. If your big corporate strategy is to boost your shareholders profits, your CEOs' bonuses by moving jobs out, well, we're going to make sure you not only pay full US taxes on those profits, but we're going to guarantee. We're going to add a 10% off shoring penalty surge tax to your bill. No more deductions for writing off expenses for the cost of sending jobs overseas, which is a big deal that could be done here at home by qualified American workers. I'm not looking to punish American business, but there's a better way. Make it in Michigan, make it in America, invest in our communities and the workers in places like Warren. That's what this is about. UAW workers, steel workers, IBW workers. You're the best craftsmen and women in the world. And you're right here. If you're ready to make it in America, then just like there are consequences for off showing, there will be rewards and incentives for creating good paying jobs here at home. Today, I'm announcing my new Made in America tax credit, a 10% advanceable tax credit for companies that invest in the United States and American workers, to help accelerate the recovery under our build back better agenda. So if your company revitalizes a closing facility here in the United States, like the transmission plant that got closed last year, we'll take care of 10% of the investment that company makes to reopen it. If you retool a manufacturing facility to make it more competitive, for example, by shifting to help build a new fleet of clean American vehicles made by UAW members, we'll make sure that's more than affordable for you. We're going to make sure you'll get a tax credit. If you reshore jobs that have previously been sent overseas, expand your operations in the United States or increase wages for manufacturing jobs will make an even smarter strategic decision for your company because we will make sure you get a tax credit. These two steps on top of my plans to close each and every one of the Trump loopholes that he created in 2017 with his tax cut to reward companies with big tax breaks for off shoring. That's going to end. If you're going to want to build things here in the United States, because under our administration, the Biden Harris Administration, is going to deliver on the promise to buy American. It's been a law for almost a century, but we've never lived up to it. The idea is simple. Today, the US government spends about $600 billion of taxpayer's money on federal contracts annually. And that money should go to support American jobs and American businesses. But President Trump has only ever treated it like it was a weak suggestion. Agencies of the federal government can waive the requirements, explanations that Trump doesn't bother even kick back on. We're going to change that when I'm president. In my first week, I'll sign a series of executive actions to make sure we enforce by America and direct the full purchasing power of the federal government to fulfill his promise, starting by closing those waiver loopholes immediately. And I promise you, I'll use the full power of the Defense Production Act to enforce buy American and tighten the rules for public infrastructure projects, roads, bridges, canals, airports. And I'm going to crack down on companies that label products as made in America, even if they're coming from China or elsewhere. We found out that on Trump's watch a company selling deployment bags to active duty troops being deployed falsely claimed this product was made in America. When in fact, it was really made mostly in China. Trump didn't do anything to respond. I'm not going to let that happen on my watch. We're going to have an office at the White House dedicated to making sure everyone is playing by the same made in America rules. And one more thing, when I say we're going to use the purchasing power of the federal government to reinvigorate domestic manufacturing, I mean. We're going to do that with the American automobile industry as well. United States government owns and maintains an enormous fleet of vehicles. We're going to convert those government vehicles into electric vehicles, made in America, sourced right here in the United States of America. With the government providing the demand and support to retool factories that are suggesting they're struggling to compete, the United States automobile industry will set up expanding the capacity in the United States, not China, to lead the world in clean energy vehicles. I can't wait to get, I said, behind that all electric Corvette that goes 210 miles an hour. Y'all think I'm kidding. I mean it. Last year, that converted Corvette set a speed record of 210.2 miles per hour, electric vehicle. So don't tell me we don't still make the best cars right here in the United States of America, and trucks. We're going to make it easy for American consumers to switch to electric vehicles. We're going to build on all the new infrastructure we're going to build on highways. We're going to build a network of 500,000 charging stations across America, providing prevailing wage jobs for the IBW and other craftsmen all across the country. And by offering rebates and incentives to swap older fuel efficient vehicles for new clean American made models, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil. And together, this will mean, listen to me now, 1 million new jobs in the American automobile industry, 1 million. With supply chain, as well as the associated infrastructure, we can do this. We can do this. We can revitalize our industrial base as the heart of the American middle class. Think about the worker in Warren who when the transmission plant closed, he told a reporter and I'm quoting him, "Getting a good GM job 23 years ago for me was like winning the lottery," he said. "I was trying to start a family. I was able to buy a house. I went to Disney world, all that." Think about that. A job that felt like winning a lottery because it opened the door to a life that you wanted for yourself, because it gave you dignity, allowed you to provide for your family. Getting a good job in 2020, right here in America, shouldn't be a lottery. It should be an absolute expectation for everyone. I don't accept the defeatist view that the forces of automation and globalization mean we can't keep good paying union jobs here in America and create more of them. I don't buy for one second that the vitality of American manufacturing is a thing of the past. We have the most qualified workers in the world. American manufacturing, is the old expression you heard your grandpop say or your grandmother, was the arsenal of democracy in World War II. Well, guess what? It's going to be part of the engine of American prosperity now in 2021, and we're going to make it happen with American grit, American determination, and American union workers. Look, folks. That's my promise to you. And keep in mind, back in the 30s, they set up the law relating to unions. It said that not you could have a union, it said the government should encourage unions to increase . You're going to have the best, most friendly union president in history of the United States of America, when I'm in the White House. I want to thank you all, for all you do. Don't give up hope. Don't give up hope. We can come back. We can come back stronger than we were before. I want to thank you all. I carry with me… I don't have it. I gave it to my staff. I carry with me in my pocket… Do I have that around, anyone? Where's my staff? I gave it away. Anyway, I carry a schedule in my pocket that lists every single day the number of troops lost in Afghanistan and Iraq. The number wounded. This is my schedule. The back of the schedule is always a black box. You can't really see it. The press may be able to. It says daily US updates. Troops died in Iraq and Afghanistan, 6,922, not over 6,000, 6,922, is every one of those women and men left behind. An entire group of people relied on them. US troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, 53,188. Not over 53,000. US COVID infected in America, 6,344,700. US COVID deaths, 189,506. Military COVID infected, 118,984. Military COVID deaths, 6,114. Folks, every one of these lives matter. Every one of these lives left somebody behind grieving. We can't ever forget them, ever, ever forget them. Thank you all. God bless you. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Better not touch it. Hello everybody. It's great to be here. I just want the record to show that Jim promised, if I get elected president of United States, I can go down to the Houston facility and work and try to drive any this machinery I get a shot at. I used to have a license to drive tractor trailers, but I tell you what, I'm looking at that sucker, that big Caterpillar. That's a good one. But I'm not sure I want to try that crane, man, that looks awful. That looks awful tough. I know. Well, I'll tell you what, it's great to be here. There was an old expression when I was growing up in Scranton, you go home with them that brung you to the dance. And labor brought me to the dance a long, long time ago. They're the ones who are the operating engineers and the carpenters. Early on, first time that I ran, people who laid the tracks and the pipelines, who operate the cranes and shape the skyline, who build the foundations of everything we rely on. Labor as I said, brought me to the dance, not an exaggeration. And the only reason I'm standing here today as a candidate for president, if it hadn't been for labor back in 1972, when I was a 29 year old kid, just after Labor Day, I was losing the election. I think it was 54 to 19 going into the election. And then labor came on board. Carpenters across the board, just up and down, operating engineers, the steel workers and we ended up winning by an overwhelming margin of 3,200 votes statewide when Nixon won the state was 68% of the vote. I don't forget. My dad used to have an expression for real. He said, "The only way to deal with the abuse of power, Joey, is with power. And the only people can take on major corporate interests and the oligarchs who are abusing power, the working men and women are organized labor." That's not an exaggeration. The only ones. The only ones. And that's why I've been so supportive of labor my whole career. I've never forgotten everything that they've done for me, you've done for me, but not just for me, but for the country. You are literally not figuratively, the backbone of America. The military is the spine of America, you're the backbone of America. An awful lot of you served in the military as well. You're the ones who actually built this country, not Wall Street bankers and CEOs. You built the country and you're going to build it and you're going to build it back better than it was before. And I want thank Jim. I want to thank President Callahan and his team as well as the folks in Local 66 for welcoming me here today and giving us an inside look at everything you're doing to rebuild and energize Western Pennsylvania. I'm from Eastern Pennsylvania. I'm from up in Lackawanna County in that valley and a lot's going to happen here. I am so confident. I really am that we're not only coming back, we're going to come back big. I mean hardworking folks. I want to thank Vice President Frank Spencer and the carpenters for all they do as well. I'm honored, the trust you've placed in me and I want to thank you a lot for it. And if I have the honor of becoming president, I'll be fighting for you every single day. And I promise you, hear me now, you will have a seat at the table at the White House. No fundamental decisions will be made without you sitting in literally not figuratively. Literally, that's a word. You have my word on it. And folks, I've been on a train today. I've traveled, it's kind of like going back home. I traveled over 2,100,000 miles over 40 years on Amtrak going back and forth every single solitary night to see my kids. A 250 mile round trip. But we came today, we on an Amtrak train, do a whistle stop tour. We started off in Cleveland, across Ohio, into Western Pennsylvania. And riding the rails reminds me of when I would take the train home from Wilmington to Washington and back every night. And I used to go back when you get through round the beltway, going into Baltimore, you go through a number of middle class neighborhoods like houses like I grew up in. Three bedroom split level homes, that kind of thing. And I used to literally, when we'd have debates on the floor of the Senate, look out that window and I'd sit there and I'd see the lights on and the homes we were passing just like we saw coming from Cleveland into Pittsburgh and Pittsburgh to here. And I'd wonder, do they have the same kind of conversations at that table that my mom and dad had at our table? Are they having the same kind of conversations the guys I grew up with, the women I grew up with had? No honey, we can't get four new tires on the car. We can't afford it, we got to wait another month. Literally not figuratively, literally. Or, I know we need a new hot water heater. We can't afford it. We got to wait. It's going to take a little while longer. You have vast majority of the middle class saying before we got into this recession. If they got an unexpected bill for $400 in a month that they didn't expect, they'd either have to borrow the money or put it off. They're neighbors I grew up in. You're the only ones that saved them from people from having to do that if in fact you're able to have work. Folks, I knew all those families inside and those families and on that route today. I didn't know their names, but I know what's on their minds. What their concerns were. They're not looking for a handout, all they're looking for is a hand up. My dad used to say, "Joe, I don't expect the government to solve my problems, but I sure in heck expect them to understand my problem." We're not understanding the problems of the vast majority of Americans today. All they're looking for as a fair shot and a little bit of dignity and a little bit of respect instead of being looked down on so that the parents could look their kids in the eye and say, "Honey, everything's going to be okay." My dad used to have that expression. After we left Scranton, he had to move to Delaware and commute every day for over a year and finally be able to get us down. Not every day, once a week, come back every week. And finally, we got apartment in Claymont Delaware. A little steel town, has no more steel now. And then we finally ever got a home four years later. But it's what a lot of people we're still going through. There's a stark difference from what I saw last night on the debate stage. An entitled self serving president who inherited everything in his life and squandered it. A president who calls his own supporters, according to some staff members, his own supporters, disgusting. Who thinks that folks who put their lives on the line for our country in the military are losers and suckers. It's despicable. I've dealt with guys like Trump my whole life. The guys who might let you park the cars at their country club, pick up a few bucks but even if you had the money, wouldn't let you join the country club because of your religion or because of your background. Guys who stiff contractors, building their hotels and their golf courses, just to put a few more bucks in their pocket, seems to take some joy in it. Guys who think the rules don't apply to them. Guys and make tens of millions of dollars and pay $750 in federal taxes in a year. Donald Trump sees things from Park Avenue. I see him from where I grew up in Scranton and Claymont. My mom, Jean Finnegan Biden had a backbone like a ramrod, all five foot one of her. And my mom used to have an expression. I really mean it. I used to be a stutter and it's when you're a stutter you're used to bullies. It's easy to make fun of somebody who talks like that. That's how I learned to fight. Joke used to be, Biden's like shoe leather. You can beat him, but he's going to hurt you. You have to stand up to these folks. Well, my mom would say, "Joey, look at me, look at me. Remember, nobody is better than you, nobody, but everybody's your equal." And she meant it. She meant it. As I said, my dad's expression when we moved to Delaware was he'd talk about how a job is a lot more than about a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect. It's about your place in the community. Those values shaped my whole life. If you look back on my career, you notice it shaped my whole career, my Build Back Better plan. It shaped my views as president what I'll do. It's all about giving communities like Greensburg and New Alexandra and Claymont and Scranton and places in parts of Cleveland I just came out of, giving women and men who work on pipelines and construction sites a fair shot. We're going to invest $2 trillion in infrastructure, including more than 50 billion in one year to get to repairing our schools, our highways, our bridges, revitalizing our locks and our dams, making our inland waterways the finest in the world. That's what attracts businesses. That's what brings employment. You talk about how much my plan costs. Well, guess what? Those investments are going to create millions of high paying jobs. Building a modern infrastructure and a durable energy future. And I promise you this, in my administration, collective bargaining, now hear me, collective bargaining will be sacred. It's a guarantee. A guarantee. And union apprenticeships, union apprenticeships will be sacred. Last thing we need is corporate America taking over apprenticeships programs like they tried to do. We're going to stand up for prevailing wage and benefit productions and the Davis Bacon Act. I guarantee. You may recall the president, he used to like to surprise me at State of the Union addresses says, "And Sheriff Joe will take care of the Build Back." we didn't call it Build Back Better, it was Recovery Act $800 billion. Not a single project was not prevailing wage. It's a guarantee, every single solitary project we built. And so folks, we're going to level the playing field for you and for your families. We're going to have wages and benefits. We're going to lower healthcare cost, prescription drug prices. We're going to take on the opioid crisis for real, with effective treatment. Making four years of public college universities, apprentice programs, tuition free, anybody making less than $125,000 a year if they go to a state university, they go to a community college it's automatic. If they're in an apprentice program, it's going to be free. My wife has an expression. She's a community college professor, "Any country that out educates us will out compete us." The cost is staggering for people having to carry the burden. And we're going to do it without asking anyone who makes under $400,000 a year to pay one more penny in taxes, guaranteed, my word on it, because what we're going to do, we're going to get rid of the God awful $2 trillion tax cut that Trump passed. 1.4 trillion of it going to the top 1%, a significant portion of that going to the top 1/10th of 1%. We're going to start rewarding work, not wealth. We're going to make sure corporations began to pay. The Fortune 500 companies, 91 don't pay a single penny in taxes and some of them make multi-billion dollars. How about your taxes? You pay nothing in taxes? We're not going to punish anybody, everybody's going to pay their fair share. Look, a lot of people around here voted for Donald Trump last time. I get it. I understand why. I've been asked many times in recent years, "How do we get to a place where the people who teach our kids, take care of our sick, build our bridges, operate our cranes, who race into burning buildings and don't ask who's in the other end there, whether you're black or white or Muslim or Christian, people who in fact grow our food, how do we get to a place where they don't think we don't see them? Or hear them? Or respect them?" Well, I see them. I hear them. I respect them. I know them. They're family and it's going to change. It's going to change with me. Look, this is not a partisan moment. This is an American moment. And I mean that seriously. Think about it. We have a chance to put the anger and division that has overtaken this country behind us. We can be what we are at our best. One people, one America. We just need to remember who in God's name we are. This is the United States of America. Think about this. Never once in our history, when we've set our mind to it, have we not been able to accomplish whatever we set our mind to do when we've done it together. There's not a single thing we can't do. And with your help, I'm going to get elected. And with us working together, I promise you. I promise you, it's going to be a different America. We again, reward work not just wealth. Where people are treated with decency. I'll conclude by saying, a president's words matter, no matter how good or bad a president is, the words they utter matter and can take us to war. They can bring peace, they can make the market rise or fall, they can change people's lives. And this president has breathed hate and division under the rocks here. Hate only hides. It doesn't go away. And it matters what presidents say. And you heard what he said last night, when he was asked by the moderator, "Will you condemn white supremacy?" And he fuddled around didn't say anything. I said, "How about the Proud Boys?" And he said, "Well," the context he likes he said, "just tell them to stand down and stand by." Go online. Look up Proud Boys they've got a new emblem now, literally. It says, "Stand down and stand by." Implying that if he loses the election, something may have to be done. I promise you that won't happen. The American people are going to speak. They're going to speak in large numbers and nobody is going to get in the way of our democratic process going forward. Nobody, period. This is the United States of America. We're not as some tin horn, dictator shepherded, third world country. This is the United States of America. I want to thank you all for your endorsements. I really mean it. Means a lot to me personally, just on a personal level I appreciate it. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you so very much. Thank you Serg. Thank you, to . I'm sorry. Fire away. Didn't I meet you? Didn't I meet you? Oh I owe you a drink. General, as you probably know, I've been a significant supporter of the moratorium, and I make it permanent relative to the base capacity that you have for testing. Otherwise, you've got to go way above Fairbanks to find a place where you can have live fire exercises, which I've been to as well. Look, I believe you're absolutely right. The president made it clear he was going to lift the moratorium on offshore drilling. Most people only focused on the … Not only, but focused on the environmental impact of that happening, what that would mean. Especially since when we don't need more fossil fuel, what we need is more renewable energy. But I strongly support, I can guarantee you if I'm president, there will be no offshore drilling, and I extend the moratorium. I think it should be basically a permanent moratorium. But particularly as it relates to … And it frightens people when I talk about the testing area. They say, "Well, I didn't know that. I didn't know they're out there testing. They really shooting live ammo and things?" Yeah, you have to find someplace to do it. And it's not doing the environmental damage that putting a well down there may do. And so I guarantee you, I haven't changed my view from the time I supported the moratorium in the first place. It will stay as long as … I think we should try to make it permanent, absent the ability to find that no longer is there a need for that kind of practice, which I don't see happening in any near term, in terms of being able to fly those missions and understand exactly how you train all these young women and men to be able to protect us. And so I strongly support your position. I'm not just saying it. You probably know that's been my position for a long time, but I must admit to you, even if it were not, even we were not in a position to deal with having to deal with the military side of it, I think it's a mistake environmentally. Especially at this time, we should be investing our money in renewable capacity, not eliminating tomorrow all fossil fuels, but making sure that we invest in the things that in fact can fundamentally alter the continent. Because you're going to have … There's a reason why all these hurricanes are coming. The water is getting a hell of a lot warmer off your coast in the Caribbean. And it's getting awful warm also in the west, and El Nino. So I completely agree with you. And since I already made a closing statement, I won't, but thank you for what you're doing. And thank you for your service. And by the way, is a seven … What's the unit? Yeah, yeah. You guys are amazing, man. They sure do. And by the way, the president's met and talked with Putin six times and still hasn't mentioned the bounty on the heads of Americans in Afghanistan, and the recent ramming of American vehicles by Russians in Syria, and injuring American soldiers. Not even mentioned. Well, one last comment, actually, I think that … Look, I'm running for president as a Democrat. But I'm not going to be a Democrat president. I'm going to be an American president. And the one thing we've always had bipartisanship on is support of the military. Think about it. There's been extremes in both parties, but support for the military, the sacrifices they make. And I can tell you, if I'm elected I'm going to spend as much time trying to help people that didn't vote for me as those who did. So thank you so very much. Thank you very much. And I'll be back to you on what we talked about, okay? The bad news is I show up when I'm invited. So, you're poor relative … Well, like the poor relative. The poor relatives show up, eat all your food, stay longer than they should. The wealthy ones don't come. I'm like a poor relative. I show up. So thank you so very, very much. Appreciate it. I figured if we were all quiet, I wouldn't need a mic in here is that true? What is the number one thing that you guys want to change, because I want you all to . Jesus loves everyone. He does not discriminate against anyone. Now the Harriet Tubman thing is, I'm sick of this black iconography being used by white organization for us to look up to and say "This is us." I do not…I own 100% of the Yeezy trademark, but up until now Adidas was getting 85%. And now after this, they either out of business with me or they going to get 10%. I decided not to not make it 15. I decided to make it 10. That was extremely good. That was extremely bad. I'm going to win in 2020. Out. Well, hello, Georgia. My friend, Senator David Perdue, the former governor Sonny Perdue, Congressman Rick Allen, Congressman William Timmons, the great state party chair for the GOP, David Shafer, my fellow Americans, it is great to be back in the peach state. The fight is on. And you know, it's great to be here with so many friends. And speaking of friends of mine, allow me to bring greetings from another friend of mine, and a man who has been fighting every day to keep the promises that he made to the people of Georgia. I bring greetings and thanks from the 45th president of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. You know, with the support of people all across Georgia and all across this country, it's amazing. This president and our team received more than 74 million votes across America, 10 million more votes than four years ago. We received the greatest share of minority votes of any Republican candidate for president in 60 years, and we added more than a dozen seats already to the United States Congress. And we're going to put two more in the winning column when we send Georgian senators back to Washington DC. You know, I'm here because I stand with president Donald Trump, and we stand with Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Loeffler. And together with your two great senators, we're fighting every day for integrity in our elections, and we're fighting every day to hold the line and save the majority in the United States Senate. That's really why I'm here, that's why the president was in Valdosta on Saturday, and that's why I'm so grateful that you all came out to this gathering in Augusta today. I don't know if you heard about it. So far, just in the last few days, 18 States have joined the Lone Star State to defend the integrity of our elections before the highest court in the land. President Donald Trump deserves his day in court, the Supreme court. And all I can say is God bless Texas. But men and women of Georgia, I'll tell you, as our election contests continue here in Georgia and in States across the country, I'll make you a promise. We're going to keep fighting until every legal vote is counted. We're going to keep fighting until every illegal vote is thrown out, and we will never stop fighting to make America great again. That's why president Trump and I need David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back in a Republican majority in the United States Senate. For all we've done, for all we have yet to do, we need the peach state to defend the majority because the road to a Senate majority runs right through the state of Georgia. Are you with me? I'm here on the president's behalf because we need Georgia to send these two great senators back to Washington, DC. We need to send them back for three reasons. We need to send them back because of who they are, we need to send them back because of all we've accomplished together, and we need to send them back because the Republican majority could be the last line of defense to preserve all we've done to defend this nation, revive our economy and preserve the God given liberties we hold dear. We need to hold the line, Georgia. And first off, I'm on here just like Governor Perdue said, I'm here… And he hadn't even my cousin, I'm here because of who these people are. David Perdue's a son of Macon. He worked his way to the top of the business world, could have spent the rest of his life in leisure, but as you heard his cousin say, he and his family went to their knees and they felt a calling to serve. After 40 years as one of the most successful business leaders in America, he answered the call to serve Georgia in the United States Senate. And I can tell you, having served alongside of this good man every day, I know of no more principled conservative man of integrity or champion of President Trump's agenda in the United States Senate than Senator David Perdue. We need him back. And I'm also here because of his colleague in the Senate. Fourth generation family farmer, grew up in the Heartland of America, but got here to Georgia just as every bit as quick as she could. Built her own company from the ground up. You know, her story, she broke barriers in business and sports to become one of the most successful business women in Georgia history. And in a very short period of time, I can tell you… … and in a very short period of time, I can tell you, she has emerged as one of the most courageous and principled conservative voices in the United States Senate. We need Senator Kelly Loeffler back in Washington, D.C. So President Trump and I need you to support these senators, to get your family, and your neighbors, and your friends, to do the same because of who they are. But it's also because of all that we've been able to do with their support. I mean think about it. Four years ago we inherited a military that'd been hollowed out by reckless budget cuts, an economy that was struggling to break out of the slowest recovery since the Great Depression. Terrorism was on the rise and we witnessed a steady assault on our most cherished values. With the unwavering support of both of Georgia's senators, under the leadership of President Donald Trump we rebuilt our military. We revived our economy. We secured our border, stood with law enforcement, and fought for life and liberty, and the Constitution of the United States of America. It's true. You know, I have to tell you, a lot of you know me as your vice president, but the highest title I'll ever hold is D-A-D, and I couldn't be more proud to be the father and the father-in-law of two military fighter pilots. And I couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who cares so deeply about the men and women of our armed forces. With the support of your senators President Donald Trump has signed the largest increases in our national defense since the days of Ronald Reagan. We're finally giving our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guard, the support they need to defend this nation. I can tell you, from his seat on the Senate Armed Services Committee Senator David Perdue has been there for our military every step of the way. Thank you, senator. It's not just been about those who serve today, but it's also about those of you who did serve in the uniform of the United States. You remember the last administration. We saw years of scandal at the VA that shocked the conscience of the nation. But when President Donald Trump came into office, with the help of your two senators, those days were over. President Trump signed the most sweeping reforms of the VA in 50 years. We fired 5,000 VA employees that weren't giving our veterans the care that you earned, and Veterans Choice is now available for every veteran in America. From her seat on the Veterans Affairs Committee, Senator Kelly Loeffler was there for America's veterans every step of the way. And with that renewed American strength, rebuilding our military, restoring the arsenal of democracy, we took the fight to our enemies on our terms on their soil, and we've stood with our allies as never before. At the direction of this Commander in Chief, the armed forces of the United States took down the last inch of territory under the black flag of ISIS and took out their leader without one American casualty. And when the most dangerous terrorist in the world, a man responsible for the death of hundreds of American service members was in our sights, President Donald Trump took him out. Qasem Soleimani is gone. We've stood up to our enemies, but we've also stood with our most cherished ally as never before. You know, four presidents in a row had made the promise to the American people, but it was President Donald Trump who kept his promise when we moved the American Embassy to Jerusalem, the capital of the State of Israel. And Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Loeffler were there every step of the way. So it's been about America's place in the world, our national security, but it's also been about our prosperity these last four years. After the slowest recovery in 75 years, President Trump worked with your senators and we revived our economy. We cut taxes across the board for working families and businesses large and small. We rolled back more federal regulation than any administration in history. We fought for free and fair trade, unleashed American energy, and in three short years we saw seven million good-paying jobs created, including 350,000 right here in the State of Georgia. And your senators were there every step of the way. As we made our way this year through one of the most challenging years in our lifetimes on that solid foundation that we poured of less taxes, less regulation, a growing American economy, at the height of the coronavirus pandemic we'd lost 22 million jobs, with the strong support of your two senators, with the relief efforts that President Trump secured from Congress, we've been opening up America again. We've already seen 12 million Americans go back to work. The American comeback is happening. Speaking of that pandemic, I have to tell you how grateful we are to Senator Perdue and Senator Loeffler for their support all along the way. At President Trump's direction early this year, we launched the greatest national mobilization since World War II. We reinvented testing. We saw the delivery of billions of medical supplies to our doctors, and nurses, and hospitals. We managed to distribute hundreds of thousands of medicines and therapeutics. And as I stand here today, while the other side said it would never happen, it would take a miracle, we're just a few days away from the approval of the first coronavirus vaccine for the American people, and millions of doses. America is in the miracle business under President Donald Trump. And again your senators were there every step of the way. Frankly, when it comes to the foundation of our prosperity and the rule of law, I couldn't be more grateful that with the support of Senator Perdue and Senator Loeffler President Trump and I have seen more than 220 conservative judges confirmed to our federal courts at every level, including Justice Neil Gorsuch, Justice Brett Kavanaugh, and Justice Amy Coney Barrett. I'll tell you, those three justices and all those judges are all men and women who will uphold all the God-given liberties enshrined in our constitution. Like the freedom of religion, the freedom of speech, and the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. Keep and bear arms. You want. The last administration, you all remember it? We saw a steady assault on our values and our freedom It especially trampled on the religious liberty of Americans. You remember. I mean, literally, the last administration used the power of the federal government to compromise the conscience rights of doctors and nurses and religious charities. They even hauled a group of nuns, known as the Little Sisters of the Poor, into federal court to order them to compromise their faith, to live under the mandates of Obamacare. They're promising to do it again, aren't they, Senator? But we saw religious intolerance among the Democrats unlike to which we would see again, if they got control of the Senate. I mean, you all remember a couple of years ago when Amy Coney Barrett was up for another judgeship. She was before the Senate Judiciary Committee and the leading Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, actually told Amy Coney Barrett that she was concerned about her sincere Catholic faith. She said, and I quote, "The dogma lives loudly within you." Hollywood liberals have been attacking Amy Coney Barrett ever since for her faith and for values. Well, I got news for the Democrats in Washington and their friends in Hollywood. That dogma lives loudly in me. That dogma lives loudly in you and the right to live and worship, according to the dictates of our faith lives loudly in the Constitution of the United States of America. For our liberties, for our freedoms, for the ability to live and to work and to worship, according to the dictates of our conscience, we need a Republican majority in the United States Senate. We need David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back in Washington, DC. I don't have to tell all of you who've come out on this sunny day. The stakes in this election has never been higher. The choice in this election has never been clearer. I mean, I'm here because of who they are. I'm here because of all we've done, but I'm here because this choice is so stark, where David Perdue, Kelly Loeffler stand for strong national defense, Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock are going to cut our national defense to fund their big government program. You just watch. Where David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler cut taxes, Jon Ossoff and the radical liberal Raphael Warnock want to raise taxes on working families and businesses, large and small. Where David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler support our military, Raphael Warnock has demeaned our military and he's repeatedly defended the antisemitic rhetoric of Reverend Jeremiah Wright. Maybe, most close to my heart, where Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock support abortion on demand and taxpayer funding of abortion all the way up to the moment of birth.,David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler will always stand for the right to life. Thank you, Dan. You all know what the stakes are here in Georgia. I mean, Chuck Schumer couldn't have said it better, right? Chuck Schumer said, "Now, we take Georgia, then we change America. Well, I got another message for Chuck Schumer and the Washington Democrats. We're going to keep Georgia. We're going to save the Senate, and then we're going to save America. I mean, for real. Our agenda is American greatness. Their agenda is American decline. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock advance a socialist agenda of higher taxes, open borders, government takeover of healthcare, a green new deal, defunding the police, packing the courts. That's just for starters. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock are wrong for Georgia and wrong for America. That's why we need Georgia to say no to Ossoff and Warnock and yes to Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Loeffler on January 5th. But, I came here today to say from my heart what you heard the President say the other night in Valdosta, and I need you to say to all of your neighbors and friends. In these challenging times in the life of our nation, Georgia, stay in the fight. Stay the fight for integrity In our elections. Stay in the fight to defend the Republican majority in the Senate and stay in the fight until the polls close on January 5th, and we send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to Washington, DC. Stay in the fight to keep America great. That's what's on the line, to preserve the progress that we've made, to protect our values and our liberties. We need you to do a couple of things, folks. First off, we need you to vote Georgia. Vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to the United States Senate. I'm talking basics now. I'm told, you can actually request an absentee ballot today. If you need information you can go to Georgiavotinginfo. com. They got everything you need. You have until December 31st to request an absentee ballot. I want you to be confident about your vote. Our great GOP State Chair, David Shafer, and the senators will tell you, "We're on them this time. We're watching. We're going to secure the polls. We're going to secure the drop boxes." So, get an absentee ballot in today and vote. Don't wait. Get it done. If you don't want to vote by mail, I'm told in-person voting starts this coming Monday. Mark your calendar. Come Monday morning, I checked, you can go to the Bell Auditorium, 712 Telfair Street, right here in Augusta, 8:30 to 5:00. Remember, friends don't let friends vote alone. Bring your family. … friends don't let friends vote alone, bring a family member, bring a neighbor, bring a friend and vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to Washington, DC. I know we all got doubts about this last election. I know I do, but I actually hear some people saying, "If you're in the Peach State, just don't vote." My fellow Americans, if you don't vote, they win. If you don't vote, there could be nothing to stop Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi from cutting our military, raising taxes and passing their agenda of the radical left. So I want to say to you from my heart, for all we've done, for all we have yet to do, for our president, for our future, for Georgia and for America, cast another vote for all President Trump has accomplished. Cast a vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to the United States Senate. And I promise you, we're going to keep on fighting. We can fight for our president and fight for more Republicans in the Senate at the same time. We've done both. We're going to keep doing both. We're going to keep fighting to Make America Great Again. So here's the deal. Here's the deal, Georgia. It might all come down to you. And Georgia has got to hold the line on January 5th. Will you do it? I'll tell you. I have no doubt you will. I really do. But I want to challenge you right after you vote, either absentee or early in person or come January 5th. Whenever you cast that vote, just spend every other minute that you have reaching out to your neighbors and friends. Tell them, "I was out at the airport in Augusta the other day, I ran into Mike. The President was down in Valdosta. These guys just keep coming back to Georgia." You got to tell people reelecting these two great Senators isn't just about Georgia, it's about America. Go tell your neighbors and friends. It's on the line. Tell them everything we talked about today. Everything that we've done, everything we have yet to do. It all comes down to the Peach State, but I leave here today with renewed confidence. I got to tell you, seeing this big crowd out today, I got a feeling we're going to bank a big win come January five. How about you? We live in uncertain times, don't we? In my house we have a saying, we don't know what the future holds, but we know who holds the future. So as we work, stand with our president, protect the integrity of our elections. As we work to save the majority in the United States Senate, I'd encourage you if you're ever mind to do one more thing. If from time to time, you bow the head and bend the knee, I'd encourage you to do that too. Be a good time to pray for Georgia and pray for America. And in these divided times, I'd encourage you to pray with confidence. Claim that ancient promise that Americans have clung to in much more challenging times than we could even imagine. That if his people, who are called by his name will humble themselves and pray and turn, he'll do like he's always done in the long and storied history of this state and nation. He'll hear from heaven and he'll heal this land. This one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. So pray for America and pray for all of those standing in the gap for everything we hold dear. But I want to thank you for coming out today. And I just know if all of us do all that we need to do between now and January 5th. I know if Georgia votes your values and your convictions. If you vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to a Republican majority in the United States Senate, if you keep standing with this president until every legal vote is counted, that with the support of people all across this state and with God's help, we're going to keep on winning. We're going to defend the Senate. We're going to keep Making America Great Again. We will win Georgia and save America. Now let's go get it done, Georgia. 20 years from now, 30 years from now, I want young people all across the South Side of Chicago, all across Chicago, all across America, to be able to look at this Center and say, "This is a sign I count. And this is a sign that I can change the world." Hello, everybody. This day has been a long time coming. We had originally hoped to hold a bigger festive event, but the pandemic had other plans. So we're keeping this small for now, but to everyone who is watching, including so many who were part of my administration, so many who've worked tirelessly to make this day possible, please know how incredibly grateful I am and how much I am looking forward to celebrating with all of you in person as soon as we can. I want to start by thanking Trenton for that outstanding introduction and  smile. Is that a good one? All right. Now, we're going to lift up the dirt. Yeah. That's some nice dirt, by the way. All right. And now, I guess we're going to toss the dirt up. One, two, three. That's it. Thank you, Maurice. And can we hear it for State Senator Biaggi and Assemblywoman Niou, fabulous. Hello, New York. Now, some of you know this. I never thought I'd get into politics, not in a million years, but when I got into this fight, I quickly found out nobody makes it on their own. If you're going to make any kind of progress in this country, you need allies who know how to fight. And more importantly, you need allies who know how to win. The Working Families Party has been on the front lines of fighting for racial and economic justice and building a grassroots movement to elect the next generation and I am honored to have their support. And tonight with all of you as witnesses, I'm going to make a promise and that is when I'm in the White House, working families will have a champion. Thank you Maurice and thank you to the Working Families Party. Now when so many good people show up, I usually do a town hall followed by selfies. Tonight, it's a little something different. I want to tell you a story that I haven't had a chance to tell before. It's an important story about our past and about our future. But I'll stay afterwards for as long as anyone wants to take selfies. Some things we just don't mess with. So I am especially glad to be here in Washington Square Park. I wanted to give this speech right here and not because of the arch behind me or the president that this square is named for, nope. We are not here today because of famous arches or famous men. In fact, we're not here because of men at all. We're here because of some hardworking women. Women, who more than a 100 years ago worked long hours in a brown, 10 story building, just a block that way. Women who worked at the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory. So here's what I want you to hear. It was March 25th, 1911, it was a Saturday. And at about 4:45 in the afternoon, people walking through this very park looked up and saw black smoke billowing into the sky. A fire had started in that building and inside that building on the top three floors, deadly flames leaped from a bin to the oily floors and from the floors to the walls sweeping across workrooms and trapping the workers fighting for their lives. Women, girls really, some as young as 14 raced to escape, but the exit doors were locked. Others ran to the windows, waving their arms and screaming for help. No help was coming. The fire department's ladders could only reach to the sixth floor. The flames leaped higher and women started crawling out onto the ledges. And as people on the ground stood in shocked silence, a woman jumped and then another and then another. They hit the ground with a sickening thud. They died on impact so many so fast that the women's bodies piled up on the sidewalk. Their blood ran into the gutters. Dozens more were tracked inside, trapped because the door to the staircase was locked, locked by bosses afraid that the workers might steal scraps of cloth. Firefighters would later find a pile of burned bodies next to that locked door. It took 18 minutes for 146 people to die. Mostly women, mostly immigrants, Jewish and Italian, mostly people who made as little as five dollars a week to get their shot at the American dream. It was one of the worst industrial disasters in American history, one of the worst, but it should not have been a surprise. For years across the city, women factory workers and their allies had been sounding the alarm about dangerous and squalid conditions. Fighting for shorter hours and higher pay. They protested, they went on strike, they got coverage in the press. Everyone knew about these problems, but the fat profits were making New York's factory owners rich and they had no plans to give that up. Instead of changing conditions at the factories, the owners worked their political connections. They made campaign contributions and talked with their friends in the legislature. They had greased the state government so thoroughly that nothing changed. Business owners got richer, politicians got more powerful and working people paid the price. Does any of this sound familiar? Take any big problem we have in America today and you don't have to dig very deep to see the same system at work. Climate change, gun safety, healthcare. On the face of it these three are totally different issues, but despite our being the strongest and wealthiest country in the history of the world, our democracy is paralyzed. And why? Because giant corporations have bought off our government. Americans are killed by floods and fires in a rapidly warming planet. Why? Because huge fossil fuel corporations have bought off our government. Americans are killed with unthinkable speed and efficiency in our streets and our stores and our schools. Why? Because the gun industry has bought off our government. Americans are dying because they can't afford to fill prescriptions or pay for treatment. Why? Because health insurance companies and drug companies have bought off our government. Now, Americans disagree on many things, but we don't want each other's homes burned down by wildfires. We don't want each other's children murdered at school and we don't want each other's families bankrupted by medical bills. What we want is for our government to do something. And yet, our federal government is unable to act, unable to take even the most basic steps to protect the American people. Now when you see a government that works great for those with money and connections and doesn't work for much of anyone else, that's corruption plain and simple and we need to call it out for what it is! Corruption has put our planet at risk. Corruption has broken our economy, and corruption is breaking our democracy. I know what's broken, I've got a plan to fix it and hat's why I'm running for President of the United States. There it is. . Okay, so let's start with the obvious. Donald Trump is corruption in the flesh. He's sworn to serve the people of the United States, but he only serves himself and his partners in corruption. He tries to divide us, white against black, Christians against Muslim, straight against queer and trans and everyone against immigrants. Queer and trans and everyone against immigrants. Because if we're all busy fighting each other, no one will notice that he and his buddies are stealing more and more of our country's wealth, and destroying the future for everyone else. Now, as bad as things are, we have to recognize our problems didn't start with Donald Trump. He made them worse, but we need to take a deep breath and recognize that a country that elects Donald Trump is already in serious trouble. Republican politicians sold out a long time ago, filling the courts with judges who expand the rights of corporations while they destroy the rights of citizens, passing tax cuts for wealthy donors while doing nothing to help working families, and sucking up corporate donations while lying about climate change, lying about guns and lying about health care. And too many politicians in both parties have convinced themselves that playing the money for influence game is the only way to get something done. So, what has this corrupt business as usual gotten us the extinction of one species after another as the earth heats up, children slaughtered by assault weapons, the highest levels of inequality in a century, wages that barely budge, crippling student loan debt, shrinking opportunity for the next generation, and the one after that, and the one after that. The American people get it and they are sick of it. Corruption has taken over our government and we're running out of time. We must rooted out and return our democracy to the people. And yes, I got a plan for that. Okay, so, I got a lot of plans, but they all come back to one simple idea: put economic and political power in the hands of the people. Yeah. And we start by rooting out corruption in government. No more business as usual. Let's attack corruption head on. You ready? So, I've got the biggest anti-corruption plan since Watergate. It's a plan to shut down the ability of the rich and powerful to use their money to tilt every decision in Washington. So, I just want to give you a sample of what we can do. End lobbying as we know it. We can do this. No high ranking public official should be thinking about their next job while they're collecting a paycheck to represent the American people. So I have a lifetime ban on senators, congressmen, and cabinet secretaries from ever being lobbyists. And no more hiring corporate lobbyists to staff up the federal government. Look, the right of every person in this country to petition their government does not protect a multibillion dollar influence industry, whose sole purpose is to undermine democracy and tilt every decision in favor of those who can pay. So, let's shut this industry down and return our government to the people. Oh, and there's more. No more secret meetings. Every single meeting between a lobbyist and a public official should be a matter of public record. No more lobbying on behalf of foreign governments, and no more campaign contributions or bundling by lobbyists. Contributing to a campaign at the same time that you're paid to influence those same elected officials is the very definition of bribery, and we're going to put a stop to it. And here's another. Anyone, anyone, who wants to run for federal office will have to put their tax returns online. And there's more. Presidents, cabinet members, members of Congress will be barred from owning businesses on the side, barred from trading in individual stocks. You know, look, take care of the people's business or take care of your own business, but you can't do both at the same time. Corruption and influence peddling has seeped into every corner of our government, so it's time for some new plans for our regulators. Far too many agencies act like wholly owned subsidiaries of the companies they are supposed to regulate. When these agencies are captured, the results are pollution and financial advisers who cheat people, all while regulators look the other way. Enough is enough. We're going to take down the for sale signs hanging outside of every federal building in Washington. Oh, and here's another one. It's also time to call out corruption in the federal judiciary. Increasingly, bigshot corporate lawyers are getting appointed as federal judges, and they turn out one decision after another in favor of corporations and against the interests of American consumers, against unions and against vulnerable people who must count on the courts to protect their rights. Shadowy right wing groups have spent millions of dollars to ram through aggressively unqualified nominees who are likely to advance their causes. No one should be surprised that public confidence in our federal courts is at an all time low, but we can fix it. We will rewrite the basic code of ethics for federal judges, and we will appoint a whole new generation of judges with diverse backgrounds and a wide range of legal experiences. Judges who actually believe in fundamental principles like rule of law, civil rights, and equal justice. And finally, we will end the corruption of our campaign finance system, overturn Citizens United. Democracy is not for sale. Get rid of super PACs and secret spending by the billionaires, and break the big donors' stranglehold by creating a system of public funding for our elections. Look, I get it. I know that some people will always have more money, so they can own more shoes or more clothes than other people, but no one should own more of our democracy. Corruption comes in other forms, too, and I have plans for those. A planned end, the corrupt practice of selling fancy ambassadorships to wealthy donors, because American diplomacy should not be for sale. A plan to abolish private prisons. No one should make a profit locking people up, and no one should have a financial incentive to lobby Congress to lock up even more people. A plan to stop selling access to federal lands and national parks to giant polluters. And to break the stranglehold of the coal industry and the oil industry in energy production and transportation. And yeah, when we're talking corruption, we need to call it out in the Oval Office. I read all 448 pages of the Mueller report. No one is above the law, not even the United States president. Impeachment is our constitutional duty. So, there it is. So, there it is. Step one: tackle corruption head on. Step two: transform our economy so that every person, no matter where they live, no matter who their parents are, no matter how much money they have, every person has real opportunity. The chance to work hard, to play by the same set of rules, and to take care of themselves and the people they love. Corruption in Washington has allowed the rich and the powerful to tilt the rules and grow richer and more powerful. But this small slice at the top hasn't just scooped up a huge chunk of the wealth that all of us have worked so hard to produce. They have gobbled up opportunity itself. For the rich and the powerful in this country. There are first, second, third, and fourth chances to get ahead. But for a lot of Americans, especially for people of color, there is barely one, or for some, no chance at all. We have the power to fix that. We are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. We can afford Medicare for all to save our people and a Green New Deal to save our planet. We just need real investments in working people. So, let's start with more power in the hands of workers. Make it easier to join a union and give unions more power when they negotiate. And yes, it's time for a wealth tax. Yes! Yes, that is a 2 cent tax on fortunes over $50 million. Your first 50 million, don't worry, you're in the clear. But for your 50 millionth and 1st dollar, you got to pitch in 2 cents, and 2 cents for every dollar after that, just two cents. So, I look at it this way. You built a great fortune here in this country, worked hard, stayed up late, unlike anyone else. Yeah, you worked hard, you built a great fortune, or you inherited one. Good for you. But I guarantee that any great fortune in America was built, at least in part, using workers all of us helped pay to educate. Built at least in part getting your goods to market on roads and bridges all of us helped pay to build. Built, at least in part, protected by police and firefighters. All of us help pay their salaries. And we're happy to do it. This is America. We're happy to invest in opportunities for everyone. But we're saying that if you make it big, really big, really, really big, the top one 10th of 1%, bigger than $50 million, then pitch in two cents so everyone else gets a chance to make it. Yeah. And what can we do with two cents? Oh, universal child care for every baby in this country age zero to five, universal pre-K for every three year old and four year olds in America, and raise the wages of every childcare worker and preschool teacher in this country. All that for two cents and more. We can make technical school, community college and four year college tuition free for everyone who wants to get an education. And we can truly level the playing field, and put $50 billion directly into our historically black colleges and universities, and other minority serving institutions. All of that, and we can cancel student loan debt for 95% of the folks who've got it. So, think of what that means. Real opportunity, not just opportunity for people born into privilege, opportunity for everyone. And opportunity, real opportunity, requires honesty. Working families all across this country have been denied the opportunities they deserve. But the path for Black and Brown and Native families has been even steeper. And that is why my plans tackle historical injustice head on. And here are a few examples. My student debt cancellation plan will help close the wealth gap between black and white families. My criminal justice plan well end the practice of mass incarceration that has destroyed the lives of so many Black and Brown men. My housing plan will help families living in formerly redlined areas buy a home and start building the kind of wealth that government-sponsored discrimination denied their parents and grandparents. My climate plan includes justice for the Black and Brown communities that have struggled with the impact of pollution. And my plan respects the rights of Native Americans to protect their lands and be good stewards of this Earth. And on day one of my administration, I love the thought of what a president can do all by herself. On day one of my administration, I will use my executive authority to start closing the pay gap between women of color and everyone else because it's about time we valued the work of women of color. We must recognize the systemic discrimination that infects our economy, and we must work actively and deliberately to root it out and set this country on a better path. The time for holding back is over. We need big, structural change. Now, I know what some of you are thinking. I do. Whoa, too much. Too big. Too hard. Okay, nobody here, but we know there's some people over there, way, way out. Okay. But, you know, I know this change is possible, and I know it because America has made big, structural change before. Let me take you back to the day of that fire. A woman was visiting friends who lived in a townhouse right behind me. When the fire broke out, she hurried into the street. She joined the crowds as they ran across the park and headed to the triangle factory. And when she got there, she stood and she watched. She watched as women on the ledge, begged for help. She watched as they held each other. She watched as they jumped to their deaths. The woman watching was Francis Perkins. She was 30 years old and already a worker's rights activist, but that day set change in motion. A week later, the women's trade unions organized a funeral March and a half a million people showed up to march on Fifth Avenue right behind me. Half a million people in 1911. And it wasn't their first march, but this time it was different. While the women of the trade unions kept pushing from the outside, Francis pushed from the inside. She understood that those women died because of the greed of their bosses and the corruption of elected officials. So, she went up to Albany ready to fight. She worked to create a commission investigating factory conditions, and then she served as its lead investigator. Now, everybody just remember, this was years before women could even vote, let alone hold major roles in government. But Francis had a plan. She and her fellow activists fought for fire safety and they got it. So, the next time you do a fire drill at school or at work, you see a plainly marked fire exit, think of Francis and the Triangle Women, because they are the reason the laws changed. But they didn't stop with fire safety. With Francis working the system from the inside, and the women workers organizing and applying pressure from the outside, they rewrote New York state's labor laws from top to bottom, to protect workers. Now, over time, Francis Perkins became the state's leading expert on working conditions, and later, when Franklin Roosevelt was elected governor, he appointed her to head his labor department in Albany. And four years after that, in the depths of the Great Depression, when Roosevelt became president, he asked Francis to come to Washington to address the crisis as Secretary of Labor for the entire nation. Francis Perkins became the first woman in history to serve in the cabinet. Yeah. And what did she push for when she got there? Big structural change. She used the same model that she and her friends had used after the Triangle Fire. She worked the political system relentlessly from the inside, while a sustained movement applied pressure from the outside. As Francis Perkins put it, the Triangle Fire was the day the New Deal was born. So, here's what I want you to think about. What did one woman, one very persistent woman, one woman backed up by millions of people across this country get done? Social security, unemployment insurance, abolition of child labor, minimum wage, the right to join a union, and even the very existence of the weekend! That's big, structural change! One woman and millions of people to back her up. The tragic story of the Triangle Factory Fire is a story about power, a story of what happens when the rich and the powerful take control of government and use it to increase their own profits while they stick it to working people. But what happened in the aftermath of the fire is a different story about power. A story about our power, a story about what's possible when we fight together as one. Over and over throughout our history, Americans have been told that big, structural change just wasn't possible, and that they should just give up. The abolitionists were told, "It's just too hard. Give up now." The suffragettes were told, "Too hard. Give up now." The early union organizers were told, "It's just too hard. Give up now." Foot soldiers in the Civil Rights Movement were told, "Too hard. Give up now." LGBTQ activists were told, "It's just too hard. Give up now." But they didn't give up! No. They didn't give up. They organized, they built a grassroots movement. They persisted, and they changed the course of American history. 2020 is about the direction our America goes, not just for four years, but for generations to come. And yeah, there's a lot at stake in this election, and I know people are scared, but we can't choose a candidate we don't believe in just because we're too scared to do anything else. And Democrats can't win if we're scared and looking backward. We win when we meet the moment. We win when we stand up for what is right. We win when we get out there and fight. I am not afraid. And you can't be afraid either. So, if you're ready to fight, then join me. Go to elizabethwarren.com, help us organize, volunteer, donate five bucks, text FIGHT to 24477. We need everyone.