of surrender to the virus. And we discussed again, the vital importance of wearing masks, of protecting yourself, protecting your neighbor, and to save around a 100,000 lives in the months ahead between now and just after the first of the year. This is not political, it's patriotic. Wearing a mask, wear one, period. We focused on the way this virus is hitting communities of color much harder, particularly black, Latino and Native American communities. We're seeing race-based disparities across the aspects of this virus, higher infection rates, but lower access to testing and harder time quarantining safely because of their financial circumstances. Lower access to quality treatment, when they are infected and tragically higher mortality rates. One in 1,000 black Americans have died from this virus. This is a staggering statistic and 57% of black adults, 46% of Latino adults know someone who has died or been hospitalized from disease. Folks, we've lost more than 220,000 lives to this virus already. But this administration has just given up. Over the weekend, the White House, chief of staff Mark Meadows, went on television and admitted that they've waived the white flag and declared surrender. He said quote, "We're not going to control the pandemic." End of quote. The American people deserve so much better than this. Just look at what happened last night in Omaha, after the Trump rally ended. Hundreds of people, including older Americans and children were stranded in sub-zero freezing temperatures for hours. Several folks ended up in the hospital. It's an image that captures President Trump's whole approach to this crisis. He takes a lot of big pronouncements and he makes a lot of big pronouncements, but they don't hold up. He gets his photo op and then he gets out. He leaves everyone else to suffer the consequences of his failure to make a responsible plan. It seems like he just doesn't care much about it. And the longer he's in charge, the more reckless he gets, it's enough. It's time to change. Meanwhile, yesterday, the White House science office and this stunned me, put out a statement listing ending the COVID-19 pandemic as a top accomplishment of President Trump's first term. Top accomplishment of Trump's first term. At the very moment when infection rates are going up in almost every state in our union, the refusal of the Trump administration to recognize the reality we're living through at a time when almost a 1,000 Americans a day are dying. Every single day is an insult to every single person suffering from COVID-19 and every family who's lost a loved one. There's nothing more personal. There's nothing more personal to an American family than their health care and the health care of their loved ones. I know all too well what it feels like to have your heart ripped out, losing a loved one too soon. To sit in the hospital bedside and feel like there's a black hole in the middle of your chest, knowing there's not much you can do. I and many of you know what it feels like to watch a beloved person die, why they're dying of cancer or some other disease without having to wonder about whether you're can pay for the medical bills or what would happen if God forbid the insurance companies were able to come in and say, " We're not going to cover the treatment." And yet today, President Trump is on a single-minded crusade to strip Americans of their health care. That would only create another enormous crisis in the public health system. In two short weeks, exactly one week after the election, the Trump administration will make its case, asking the Supreme Court to strike down the Affordable Care Act quote, "In its entirety." In its entirety. Let me say that again. They're arguing that the entire law must fall, which would strip 20 million Americans have their health insurance overnight, rip away protections for pre-existing conditions for more than 100 million people in the middle of an upswing of a pandemic, the upswing. Look, just this week on 60 Minutes, we heard what Trump told Lesley Stahl about the upcoming Supreme Court case on the Affordable Care Act. And I quote, "I hope that they end it'll be so good if they end it." End of quote. There is no question. There's no question. That's why President Trump nominated Justice Barrett to the court. And that's why the Republicans jammed her through confirmation in the middle of the election. Republicans have tried and tried and tried since the Affordable Care Act was passed to overturn it. And every single time they failed. President Trump has tried everything he can on his own to sabotage the law. So now through what I'd characterize as a craving abusive of political power. They've added to the Court of Justice who criticized Chief Justice, Roberts' previous decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act in hopes that they can destroy the Affordable Care Act once and for all through the courts. No matter how many Americans they hurt in the process. So let's remember exactly what's at stake in this election. If you have diabetes, asthma, cancer, or even complications from COVID-19, you're going to lose the protection this law provides. Insurers will once more be able to jack-up your premiums or deny your coverage. Women could again be charged more for their health care just because they're women and children will no longer be able to stay in their parents' insurance policies until age 26. On top of all that, overturning the ACA could mean that people have to pay to get COVID-19 vaccine once it's available. That's right. That's right. The law that says insurers are required to cover vaccines for free is the Affordable Care Act. And he's striking that down, attempting to. Unlike Donald Trump, I believe health care isn't a privilege, it's a right that everyone have access to it? This country can't afford four more years of a president who thinks he's only responsible for the wellbeing of the people who voted for him. We can't afford four more years of a president who instead of fighting the virus, attacks doctors. I can't get over the guy. He attacked doctors claiming their over-reporting COVID cases because they want to make more money. Doctors are over-reporting cases because they want to make money. Our doctors and nurses and our frontline health care workers are putting themselves at enormous risk every day. More than a 1,000 of them have already died in attempt to beat back this pandemic and save lives. They deserve to be treated with respect by their president. We can't afford four more years of a president who'd rather spend his time desperately trying to strip people of their health care, and even once bothered to put forward a health care plan on his own. We can't afford four more years of Donald Trump. And the good news is we have a chance to turn this around by voting. We have six more days left in this election and the American people have it in their hands to put this country in a vastly different path. This is my commitment to you. I'll protect and build on the Affordable Care Act, so that you can keep your private insurance or choose a Medicare like option. You can make it stronger. I'm going to make it stronger with your help to lower premiums and deductibles. And out-of-pocket expenses. We'll bring down drug prices, but almost two thirds by taking steps such as allowing Medicare to negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies who are making billions of dollars, making the price lower. When they negotiate, Medicare says, "We're only going to pay you X amount for the following medicines." That will lower prices drastically making it available to everyone. We're going to make sure every American has access to free COVID-19 vaccine. This isn't beyond our capacity. Now, if we come together, we can stand together. If we stand together as the United States, the United States, Democrats, Republicans and independents. We can transcend all divisions and show what's possible. There's nothing beyond our capacity. There's no limit to America's future. And if I'm elected president, as I said yesterday in Warm Springs, Georgia. I'll be a president who is not in it for himself, but for others. A president of doesn't divide us, but unites us. A president who appeals not to the worst in us, but to the best in us and a president who looks not to settle scores, but to find solutions. A president guided not by wishful thinking, but by science, reason and facts. Even if I win, it's going to take a lot of hard work to end this pandemic. I'm not running on the false promise of being able to end this pandemic by flipping a switch. But what I can promise you is this, we will start on day one doing the right things. We'll let science drive our decisions. We will deal honestly with the American people and we will never, ever, ever quit. That's how we'll shut down this virus. So we can get back to our lives, a lot more quickly than the pace we're going at now. I'm going to fight to protect your health care, I promise you. Just like I fight for my own family. We can do this. I promise you, and I'm going to go do what I hope all of you do. I'm going to walk out of this building and I'm going to go vote. I'm going to go vote. There's a lot of people on that ballot, not just me, but the down-ballot as well, that are going to change things for us. Make it better. So may God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. It's great to be here in Michigan and with the United auto workers. As they say, in parts of my state, I got brung up on General Motors. My father ran a General Motors agency. He didn't own it, but he ran it and cars or cars or cars. By the way, I still have my '67 Corvette that's new. It was new. I still keep that, but I got to tell you, I'm waiting for that electric one you just made that goes 210 miles an hour, but that's a different story. Look, earlier this week and the reason we're a little bit late here, we found as I was getting off the plane, the press asked me a legitimate question that I did not have the background on because it occurred on the plane. Earlier this week, we celebrated Labor Day. And here in the heart of the American automobile industry, we never forget everything that we owe the unions. And unions, as you've heard me say many times, built this country. Unions built the economy. The economic engine has driven American manufacturing dynamism. And literally in the case of the auto workers, you're the ones that did it. So I want to thank you again, UAW region one, for hosting me today. And it's great to see Senator Stabenow. My good friend, Debbie Stabenow. Got a chance to spend a little time with the governor, but Senator Stabenow and I worked together on an awful lot of matters over the years in the United States Senate. She was a great partner to me when I was vice president and we worked in lockstep to get the people in Michigan back on their feet. We're joined by one of the best and brightest and hardest working governors around, my friend, Gretchen Whitmer. And if you're wondering what responsible strong executive leadership looks like in COVID-19, just look at this executive right here. Governor, you've done an incredible job steering the people of Michigan through a turbulent time. Much of it is brought on by Donald Trump's lack of leadership. You've been rock solid, governor. You've listened to the experts and you've led with science and you put the needs of the people, who are hurting first, helping them get through this crisis. Meanwhile, on the day that we hit 190,000 dead in the United States, because of COVID-19, we just learned from the Washington Post columnist Bob Woodward that the president of the United States has admitted on tape in February he knew about COVID-19 that had passed through the air. He knew how deadly it was. It was much more deadly than the flu. He knew and purposely played it down. Worse, he lied to the American people. He knowingly and willingly lied about the threaded pose to the country for months. He had the information. He knew how dangerous it was. Now, while this deadly disease ripped through our nation, he failed to do his job on purpose. It was a life and death betrayal of the American people. Experts say that if he had acted just one week sooner, 36,000 people would have been saved. If he acted two weeks sooner, back in March, 54,000 lives would have been spared in March and April alone. His failure has not only costs lives. He sent our economy in a tailspin. It costs millions more in American livelihoods. This is a recession created by Donald Trump's negligence. And he is unfit for this job as a consequence of it. How many schools aren't open right now? How many kids are starting a new school year the same way they ended the last one at home? How many parents feel abandoned and overwhelmed? How many frontline workers are exhausted and pushed to the limits? And how many families are missing loved ones at their dinner table tonight because of his failures? It's beyond despicable. It's a dereliction of duty. It's a disgrace. We're going to hear a lot more about this. I'm sure, not just from me, but from the news media and a lot of others, but I want to ask you one simple question. What's the value of a promise? What's it worth? What's the worth of a woman or man's word, of a president's word, if it's not matched with action? In 2016, then candidate Trump came here to Warren just a few days before the election. Here's what he said. He said, "If I'm elected, you won't lose one plant. You have plants coming into this country. You're going to have jobs again. You won't lose one plant. I promise you. I promise you." That's what he said. Donald Trump makes a lot of promises. He promised that he alone could stop the off shoring of jobs. He promised he bring back jobs, stop companies from leaving. He could do what, "Nobody else could do it, but him." Nut he promised it has administration would enforce every last buying American provision on behalf of the American people. And what makes his wild claims and hopes, he now hopes we don't notice what he said or won't remember. And when he does follow through or doesn't do with follow through the exact opposite, he's hoping we just have poor memories. He doesn't give us much credit, but the American people are smart, honest, decent, and they're hard working. And we expect our president to be straight with us, to do what he or she says they're going to do. So let's look at the reality of Donald Trump's economy and what exactly his promise to the American people and workers are worth. He's on track to be the first president since Herbert Hoover in the Great Depression to see the number of jobs in our economy go down, not up while being president. Our economy's down 4.7 million jobs since he took office, 4.7. Even before President Trump's failed response to COVID-19 crashed through our economy, his reckless and chaotic trade policy had thrown American manufacturing into recession. It was already contracting in 2019, even when COVID-19 hit, before it hit. Trump was creating an average of 500,000 jobs fewer per year than the last three years when President Obama and I were an office. When the GM transmission plant here in Warren close last year, I bet the workers around weren't all that comforted by Trump's empty promises. Under Donald Trump, Michigan lost auto jobs, even before COVID did. And what about off shoring? Has Trump delivered on stopping companies from shipping jobs overseas, American jobs? You already know the answer. Of course not. The rate of offshoring by federal contractors, there are people that get federal dollars from the federal government to do things. The off shoring, big companies being paid by US Taxpayers has doubled, doubled under Trump. Those federal contracts with your tax dollars. They've doubled the number that had been off shored. He invited companies to the White House to make what he called the pledge to American workers. He couldn't even keep those firms from outsourcing. Many were given lucrative federal contracts, but then some of them turned around and shipped 7,000 jobs overseas. Under President Trump, US trade deficit has grown. It's hit an all time high. Let me say that again. US trade deficit is at an all time high under Trump in the last three years. President Trump's answered all this as the same as he's answered everything. Corporate tax giveaways that actually ward off shoring. You heard me right. Giveaways that reward offshoring. If you offshore, you get more tax breaks. His 2017 tax bill slashed taxes on companies that sent production and jobs overseas. Those corporations then make huge profits by shipping these foreign made products back to the United States to sell to American consumers. And no industry has taken a greater advantage of Trump's offshoring tax loopholes than the pharmaceutical industry. Big pharma lobbied Trump for a handout. That's exactly what they got from him. US pharma is building factories overseas instead of the United States, skipping out on having to pay US taxes and then sending those same foreign made drugs back to American consumers, all while raising their prices on prescription drugs that union families and working people have to rely on. And in the process by the way, he's trying to do away with all healthcare in America. During a pandemic, we're seeing not only the inequity of this policy, but the enormous vulnerability that this creates for our own health security. And our security requires us to have supply chains of the necessary drugs based here, not overseas. Not overseas in times of crisis. And what about Trump's commitment to buy American? Like the rest of President Trump's promise it has nothing to do with reality. It's all a bunch of hot air. In fact, contracts awarded by US governments to foreign companies using American tax dollars went up 30% since he's been president. So to recap, one, Trump hasn't stopped companies from closing plants and sending jobs overseas. Two, he's rewarded companies that have cut jobs and failed to invest here at home with billions of dollars in tax breaks. And three, he's awarding more and more federal contracts to foreign companies. President Trump has broken just about every promise he's ever made to the American worker. And he's failed. He's failed our economy and our country. But look, would you really expect anything different from this guy? From someone who called those of you and those who are serving in uniform, who have given their lives to the country losers and suckers? Let me tell you something. My son Beau is an assistant US attorney. He volunteered to go to Kosovo to help them set up a government in the middle of the war. I know I'm being proud here, but he's the only foreigner has a monument that they raised and built in service to him, thanking him for what he did. My son also then as attorney general volunteered to go to Iraq for one year. He wasn't a loser or a sucker. No one who served this nation has been a loser or a sucker. They're all heroes. Or would you expect anything different than someone who could stand next to a father of a fallen soldier and say at a cemetery and say, "I don't get it. What was in it for them?" What was in it for them? Donald Trump does understand what it means to serve something bigger than yourself. He doesn't understand duty, honor, country. He lives by a different code. Lies, selfishness, greed. Yes, Donald Trump and I have a pretty different philosophy when it comes to giving our word. Mine means something. When I tell the American people I'm going to do something, I follow through. Here in Michigan, you know that's true. When Barack and I took office back in 2009, the economy was crashing. We inherited an economy in free fall. And millions of Americans, including so many right here in Michigan, lost their jobs, their homes, and their savings. With the help of Debbie breaking her neck here, President Obama and I worked hard. He put me in charge of the Recovery Act. I spent a lot of time here in Michigan and Detroit, working with you and Senator Stabenow, and thinking every single day about the folks on the factory line, busting their necks, just trying to put food on the table. A lot of folks were all ready to count Detroit out as well as the auto American industry to count it out. But I knew what Debbie knew. I've known always. It's never a good bet to bet against the American worker. So when we promise to stand with the American auto industry, we delivered. We didn't do it to help wealthy investors or pad bonus checks for CEOs, we did it to save an iconic American industry, a testament to the skills and ingenuity of American manufacturing. And the jobs of hundreds of thousands of American workers and the lifeblood of communities all across the Midwest, and used to be in my state of Delaware as well. When Detroit declared bankruptcy, I was right here working alongside the city leaders to get the lights turned back on to revitalize the future of Detroit. Well, nearly 20,000 auto manufacturing jobs have been lost in Michigan under Trump. Nearly 80,000 were created during the Obama Biden administration. I've got long history. I'm not just talking about what I'm going to do, but delivering results for Michiganders. And now, we need to do it again. We need to do the hard work, not only to recover, but to build the economy back for the future once more. That's why my build back better agenda, that's what it's all about. Starts right here with you in the union halls, all across America. Back in July, I made the first plank in my agenda a plan to modernize American manufacturing and technology to ensure that the future is made in America, by all of you. And today, I'm announcing some additional steps to make this plank even stronger. First, we're going to impose a tax penalty on companies that avoid paying US taxes by off shoring jobs and manufacturing, only to sell those goods back to the American consumer. If your big corporate strategy is to boost your shareholders profits, your CEOs' bonuses by moving jobs out, well, we're going to make sure you not only pay full US taxes on those profits, but we're going to guarantee. We're going to add a 10% off shoring penalty surge tax to your bill. No more deductions for writing off expenses for the cost of sending jobs overseas, which is a big deal that could be done here at home by qualified American workers. I'm not looking to punish American business, but there's a better way. Make it in Michigan, make it in America, invest in our communities and the workers in places like Warren. That's what this is about. UAW workers, steel workers, IBW workers. You're the best craftsmen and women in the world. And you're right here. If you're ready to make it in America, then just like there are consequences for off showing, there will be rewards and incentives for creating good paying jobs here at home. Today, I'm announcing my new Made in America tax credit, a 10% advanceable tax credit for companies that invest in the United States and American workers, to help accelerate the recovery under our build back better agenda. So if your company revitalizes a closing facility here in the United States, like the transmission plant that got closed last year, we'll take care of 10% of the investment that company makes to reopen it. If you retool a manufacturing facility to make it more competitive, for example, by shifting to help build a new fleet of clean American vehicles made by UAW members, we'll make sure that's more than affordable for you. We're going to make sure you'll get a tax credit. If you reshore jobs that have previously been sent overseas, expand your operations in the United States or increase wages for manufacturing jobs will make an even smarter strategic decision for your company because we will make sure you get a tax credit. These two steps on top of my plans to close each and every one of the Trump loopholes that he created in 2017 with his tax cut to reward companies with big tax breaks for off shoring. That's going to end. If you're going to want to build things here in the United States, because under our administration, the Biden Harris Administration, is going to deliver on the promise to buy American. It's been a law for almost a century, but we've never lived up to it. The idea is simple. Today, the US government spends about $600 billion of taxpayer's money on federal contracts annually. And that money should go to support American jobs and American businesses. But President Trump has only ever treated it like it was a weak suggestion. Agencies of the federal government can waive the requirements, explanations that Trump doesn't bother even kick back on. We're going to change that when I'm president. In my first week, I'll sign a series of executive actions to make sure we enforce by America and direct the full purchasing power of the federal government to fulfill his promise, starting by closing those waiver loopholes immediately. And I promise you, I'll use the full power of the Defense Production Act to enforce buy American and tighten the rules for public infrastructure projects, roads, bridges, canals, airports. And I'm going to crack down on companies that label products as made in America, even if they're coming from China or elsewhere. We found out that on Trump's watch a company selling deployment bags to active duty troops being deployed falsely claimed this product was made in America. When in fact, it was really made mostly in China. Trump didn't do anything to respond. I'm not going to let that happen on my watch. We're going to have an office at the White House dedicated to making sure everyone is playing by the same made in America rules. And one more thing, when I say we're going to use the purchasing power of the federal government to reinvigorate domestic manufacturing, I mean. We're going to do that with the American automobile industry as well. United States government owns and maintains an enormous fleet of vehicles. We're going to convert those government vehicles into electric vehicles, made in America, sourced right here in the United States of America. With the government providing the demand and support to retool factories that are suggesting they're struggling to compete, the United States automobile industry will set up expanding the capacity in the United States, not China, to lead the world in clean energy vehicles. I can't wait to get, I said, behind that all electric Corvette that goes 210 miles an hour. Y'all think I'm kidding. I mean it. Last year, that converted Corvette set a speed record of 210.2 miles per hour, electric vehicle. So don't tell me we don't still make the best cars right here in the United States of America, and trucks. We're going to make it easy for American consumers to switch to electric vehicles. We're going to build on all the new infrastructure we're going to build on highways. We're going to build a network of 500,000 charging stations across America, providing prevailing wage jobs for the IBW and other craftsmen all across the country. And by offering rebates and incentives to swap older fuel efficient vehicles for new clean American made models, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil. And together, this will mean, listen to me now, 1 million new jobs in the American automobile industry, 1 million. With supply chain, as well as the associated infrastructure, we can do this. We can do this. We can revitalize our industrial base as the heart of the American middle class. Think about the worker in Warren who when the transmission plant closed, he told a reporter and I'm quoting him, "Getting a good GM job 23 years ago for me was like winning the lottery," he said. "I was trying to start a family. I was able to buy a house. I went to Disney world, all that." Think about that. A job that felt like winning a lottery because it opened the door to a life that you wanted for yourself, because it gave you dignity, allowed you to provide for your family. Getting a good job in 2020, right here in America, shouldn't be a lottery. It should be an absolute expectation for everyone. I don't accept the defeatist view that the forces of automation and globalization mean we can't keep good paying union jobs here in America and create more of them. I don't buy for one second that the vitality of American manufacturing is a thing of the past. We have the most qualified workers in the world. American manufacturing, is the old expression you heard your grandpop say or your grandmother, was the arsenal of democracy in World War II. Well, guess what? It's going to be part of the engine of American prosperity now in 2021, and we're going to make it happen with American grit, American determination, and American union workers. Look, folks. That's my promise to you. And keep in mind, back in the 30s, they set up the law relating to unions. It said that not you could have a union, it said the government should encourage unions to increase . You're going to have the best, most friendly union president in history of the United States of America, when I'm in the White House. I want to thank you all, for all you do. Don't give up hope. Don't give up hope. We can come back. We can come back stronger than we were before. I want to thank you all. I carry with me… I don't have it. I gave it to my staff. I carry with me in my pocket… Do I have that around, anyone? Where's my staff? I gave it away. Anyway, I carry a schedule in my pocket that lists every single day the number of troops lost in Afghanistan and Iraq. The number wounded. This is my schedule. The back of the schedule is always a black box. You can't really see it. The press may be able to. It says daily US updates. Troops died in Iraq and Afghanistan, 6,922, not over 6,000, 6,922, is every one of those women and men left behind. An entire group of people relied on them. US troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, 53,188. Not over 53,000. US COVID infected in America, 6,344,700. US COVID deaths, 189,506. Military COVID infected, 118,984. Military COVID deaths, 6,114. Folks, every one of these lives matter. Every one of these lives left somebody behind grieving. We can't ever forget them, ever, ever forget them. Thank you all. God bless you. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Better not touch it. Hello everybody. It's great to be here. I just want the record to show that Jim promised, if I get elected president of United States, I can go down to the Houston facility and work and try to drive any this machinery I get a shot at. I used to have a license to drive tractor trailers, but I tell you what, I'm looking at that sucker, that big Caterpillar. That's a good one. But I'm not sure I want to try that crane, man, that looks awful. That looks awful tough. I know. Well, I'll tell you what, it's great to be here. There was an old expression when I was growing up in Scranton, you go home with them that brung you to the dance. And labor brought me to the dance a long, long time ago. They're the ones who are the operating engineers and the carpenters. Early on, first time that I ran, people who laid the tracks and the pipelines, who operate the cranes and shape the skyline, who build the foundations of everything we rely on. Labor as I said, brought me to the dance, not an exaggeration. And the only reason I'm standing here today as a candidate for president, if it hadn't been for labor back in 1972, when I was a 29 year old kid, just after Labor Day, I was losing the election. I think it was 54 to 19 going into the election. And then labor came on board. Carpenters across the board, just up and down, operating engineers, the steel workers and we ended up winning by an overwhelming margin of 3,200 votes statewide when Nixon won the state was 68% of the vote. I don't forget. My dad used to have an expression for real. He said, "The only way to deal with the abuse of power, Joey, is with power. And the only people can take on major corporate interests and the oligarchs who are abusing power, the working men and women are organized labor." That's not an exaggeration. The only ones. The only ones. And that's why I've been so supportive of labor my whole career. I've never forgotten everything that they've done for me, you've done for me, but not just for me, but for the country. You are literally not figuratively, the backbone of America. The military is the spine of America, you're the backbone of America. An awful lot of you served in the military as well. You're the ones who actually built this country, not Wall Street bankers and CEOs. You built the country and you're going to build it and you're going to build it back better than it was before. And I want thank Jim. I want to thank President Callahan and his team as well as the folks in Local 66 for welcoming me here today and giving us an inside look at everything you're doing to rebuild and energize Western Pennsylvania. I'm from Eastern Pennsylvania. I'm from up in Lackawanna County in that valley and a lot's going to happen here. I am so confident. I really am that we're not only coming back, we're going to come back big. I mean hardworking folks. I want to thank Vice President Frank Spencer and the carpenters for all they do as well. I'm honored, the trust you've placed in me and I want to thank you a lot for it. And if I have the honor of becoming president, I'll be fighting for you every single day. And I promise you, hear me now, you will have a seat at the table at the White House. No fundamental decisions will be made without you sitting in literally not figuratively. Literally, that's a word. You have my word on it. And folks, I've been on a train today. I've traveled, it's kind of like going back home. I traveled over 2,100,000 miles over 40 years on Amtrak going back and forth every single solitary night to see my kids. A 250 mile round trip. But we came today, we on an Amtrak train, do a whistle stop tour. We started off in Cleveland, across Ohio, into Western Pennsylvania. And riding the rails reminds me of when I would take the train home from Wilmington to Washington and back every night. And I used to go back when you get through round the beltway, going into Baltimore, you go through a number of middle class neighborhoods like houses like I grew up in. Three bedroom split level homes, that kind of thing. And I used to literally, when we'd have debates on the floor of the Senate, look out that window and I'd sit there and I'd see the lights on and the homes we were passing just like we saw coming from Cleveland into Pittsburgh and Pittsburgh to here. And I'd wonder, do they have the same kind of conversations at that table that my mom and dad had at our table? Are they having the same kind of conversations the guys I grew up with, the women I grew up with had? No honey, we can't get four new tires on the car. We can't afford it, we got to wait another month. Literally not figuratively, literally. Or, I know we need a new hot water heater. We can't afford it. We got to wait. It's going to take a little while longer. You have vast majority of the middle class saying before we got into this recession. If they got an unexpected bill for $400 in a month that they didn't expect, they'd either have to borrow the money or put it off. They're neighbors I grew up in. You're the only ones that saved them from people from having to do that if in fact you're able to have work. Folks, I knew all those families inside and those families and on that route today. I didn't know their names, but I know what's on their minds. What their concerns were. They're not looking for a handout, all they're looking for is a hand up. My dad used to say, "Joe, I don't expect the government to solve my problems, but I sure in heck expect them to understand my problem." We're not understanding the problems of the vast majority of Americans today. All they're looking for as a fair shot and a little bit of dignity and a little bit of respect instead of being looked down on so that the parents could look their kids in the eye and say, "Honey, everything's going to be okay." My dad used to have that expression. After we left Scranton, he had to move to Delaware and commute every day for over a year and finally be able to get us down. Not every day, once a week, come back every week. And finally, we got apartment in Claymont Delaware. A little steel town, has no more steel now. And then we finally ever got a home four years later. But it's what a lot of people we're still going through. There's a stark difference from what I saw last night on the debate stage. An entitled self serving president who inherited everything in his life and squandered it. A president who calls his own supporters, according to some staff members, his own supporters, disgusting. Who thinks that folks who put their lives on the line for our country in the military are losers and suckers. It's despicable. I've dealt with guys like Trump my whole life. The guys who might let you park the cars at their country club, pick up a few bucks but even if you had the money, wouldn't let you join the country club because of your religion or because of your background. Guys who stiff contractors, building their hotels and their golf courses, just to put a few more bucks in their pocket, seems to take some joy in it. Guys who think the rules don't apply to them. Guys and make tens of millions of dollars and pay $750 in federal taxes in a year. Donald Trump sees things from Park Avenue. I see him from where I grew up in Scranton and Claymont. My mom, Jean Finnegan Biden had a backbone like a ramrod, all five foot one of her. And my mom used to have an expression. I really mean it. I used to be a stutter and it's when you're a stutter you're used to bullies. It's easy to make fun of somebody who talks like that. That's how I learned to fight. Joke used to be, Biden's like shoe leather. You can beat him, but he's going to hurt you. You have to stand up to these folks. Well, my mom would say, "Joey, look at me, look at me. Remember, nobody is better than you, nobody, but everybody's your equal." And she meant it. She meant it. As I said, my dad's expression when we moved to Delaware was he'd talk about how a job is a lot more than about a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect. It's about your place in the community. Those values shaped my whole life. If you look back on my career, you notice it shaped my whole career, my Build Back Better plan. It shaped my views as president what I'll do. It's all about giving communities like Greensburg and New Alexandra and Claymont and Scranton and places in parts of Cleveland I just came out of, giving women and men who work on pipelines and construction sites a fair shot. We're going to invest $2 trillion in infrastructure, including more than 50 billion in one year to get to repairing our schools, our highways, our bridges, revitalizing our locks and our dams, making our inland waterways the finest in the world. That's what attracts businesses. That's what brings employment. You talk about how much my plan costs. Well, guess what? Those investments are going to create millions of high paying jobs. Building a modern infrastructure and a durable energy future. And I promise you this, in my administration, collective bargaining, now hear me, collective bargaining will be sacred. It's a guarantee. A guarantee. And union apprenticeships, union apprenticeships will be sacred. Last thing we need is corporate America taking over apprenticeships programs like they tried to do. We're going to stand up for prevailing wage and benefit productions and the Davis Bacon Act. I guarantee. You may recall the president, he used to like to surprise me at State of the Union addresses says, "And Sheriff Joe will take care of the Build Back." we didn't call it Build Back Better, it was Recovery Act $800 billion. Not a single project was not prevailing wage. It's a guarantee, every single solitary project we built. And so folks, we're going to level the playing field for you and for your families. We're going to have wages and benefits. We're going to lower healthcare cost, prescription drug prices. We're going to take on the opioid crisis for real, with effective treatment. Making four years of public college universities, apprentice programs, tuition free, anybody making less than $125,000 a year if they go to a state university, they go to a community college it's automatic. If they're in an apprentice program, it's going to be free. My wife has an expression. She's a community college professor, "Any country that out educates us will out compete us." The cost is staggering for people having to carry the burden. And we're going to do it without asking anyone who makes under $400,000 a year to pay one more penny in taxes, guaranteed, my word on it, because what we're going to do, we're going to get rid of the God awful $2 trillion tax cut that Trump passed. 1.4 trillion of it going to the top 1%, a significant portion of that going to the top 1/10th of 1%. We're going to start rewarding work, not wealth. We're going to make sure corporations began to pay. The Fortune 500 companies, 91 don't pay a single penny in taxes and some of them make multi-billion dollars. How about your taxes? You pay nothing in taxes? We're not going to punish anybody, everybody's going to pay their fair share. Look, a lot of people around here voted for Donald Trump last time. I get it. I understand why. I've been asked many times in recent years, "How do we get to a place where the people who teach our kids, take care of our sick, build our bridges, operate our cranes, who race into burning buildings and don't ask who's in the other end there, whether you're black or white or Muslim or Christian, people who in fact grow our food, how do we get to a place where they don't think we don't see them? Or hear them? Or respect them?" Well, I see them. I hear them. I respect them. I know them. They're family and it's going to change. It's going to change with me. Look, this is not a partisan moment. This is an American moment. And I mean that seriously. Think about it. We have a chance to put the anger and division that has overtaken this country behind us. We can be what we are at our best. One people, one America. We just need to remember who in God's name we are. This is the United States of America. Think about this. Never once in our history, when we've set our mind to it, have we not been able to accomplish whatever we set our mind to do when we've done it together. There's not a single thing we can't do. And with your help, I'm going to get elected. And with us working together, I promise you. I promise you, it's going to be a different America. We again, reward work not just wealth. Where people are treated with decency. I'll conclude by saying, a president's words matter, no matter how good or bad a president is, the words they utter matter and can take us to war. They can bring peace, they can make the market rise or fall, they can change people's lives. And this president has breathed hate and division under the rocks here. Hate only hides. It doesn't go away. And it matters what presidents say. And you heard what he said last night, when he was asked by the moderator, "Will you condemn white supremacy?" And he fuddled around didn't say anything. I said, "How about the Proud Boys?" And he said, "Well," the context he likes he said, "just tell them to stand down and stand by." Go online. Look up Proud Boys they've got a new emblem now, literally. It says, "Stand down and stand by." Implying that if he loses the election, something may have to be done. I promise you that won't happen. The American people are going to speak. They're going to speak in large numbers and nobody is going to get in the way of our democratic process going forward. Nobody, period. This is the United States of America. We're not as some tin horn, dictator shepherded, third world country. This is the United States of America. I want to thank you all for your endorsements. I really mean it. Means a lot to me personally, just on a personal level I appreciate it. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you so very much. Thank you Serg. Thank you, to . I'm sorry. Fire away. Didn't I meet you? Didn't I meet you? Oh I owe you a drink. General, as you probably know, I've been a significant supporter of the moratorium, and I make it permanent relative to the base capacity that you have for testing. Otherwise, you've got to go way above Fairbanks to find a place where you can have live fire exercises, which I've been to as well. Look, I believe you're absolutely right. The president made it clear he was going to lift the moratorium on offshore drilling. Most people only focused on the … Not only, but focused on the environmental impact of that happening, what that would mean. Especially since when we don't need more fossil fuel, what we need is more renewable energy. But I strongly support, I can guarantee you if I'm president, there will be no offshore drilling, and I extend the moratorium. I think it should be basically a permanent moratorium. But particularly as it relates to … And it frightens people when I talk about the testing area. They say, "Well, I didn't know that. I didn't know they're out there testing. They really shooting live ammo and things?" Yeah, you have to find someplace to do it. And it's not doing the environmental damage that putting a well down there may do. And so I guarantee you, I haven't changed my view from the time I supported the moratorium in the first place. It will stay as long as … I think we should try to make it permanent, absent the ability to find that no longer is there a need for that kind of practice, which I don't see happening in any near term, in terms of being able to fly those missions and understand exactly how you train all these young women and men to be able to protect us. And so I strongly support your position. I'm not just saying it. You probably know that's been my position for a long time, but I must admit to you, even if it were not, even we were not in a position to deal with having to deal with the military side of it, I think it's a mistake environmentally. Especially at this time, we should be investing our money in renewable capacity, not eliminating tomorrow all fossil fuels, but making sure that we invest in the things that in fact can fundamentally alter the continent. Because you're going to have … There's a reason why all these hurricanes are coming. The water is getting a hell of a lot warmer off your coast in the Caribbean. And it's getting awful warm also in the west, and El Nino. So I completely agree with you. And since I already made a closing statement, I won't, but thank you for what you're doing. And thank you for your service. And by the way, is a seven … What's the unit? Yeah, yeah. You guys are amazing, man. They sure do. And by the way, the president's met and talked with Putin six times and still hasn't mentioned the bounty on the heads of Americans in Afghanistan, and the recent ramming of American vehicles by Russians in Syria, and injuring American soldiers. Not even mentioned. Well, one last comment, actually, I think that … Look, I'm running for president as a Democrat. But I'm not going to be a Democrat president. I'm going to be an American president. And the one thing we've always had bipartisanship on is support of the military. Think about it. There's been extremes in both parties, but support for the military, the sacrifices they make. And I can tell you, if I'm elected I'm going to spend as much time trying to help people that didn't vote for me as those who did. So thank you so very much. Thank you very much. And I'll be back to you on what we talked about, okay? The bad news is I show up when I'm invited. So, you're poor relative … Well, like the poor relative. The poor relatives show up, eat all your food, stay longer than they should. The wealthy ones don't come. I'm like a poor relative. I show up. So thank you so very, very much. Appreciate it. I figured if we were all quiet, I wouldn't need a mic in here is that true? What is the number one thing that you guys want to change, because I want you all to . Jesus loves everyone. He does not discriminate against anyone. Now the Harriet Tubman thing is, I'm sick of this black iconography being used by white organization for us to look up to and say "This is us." I do not…I own 100% of the Yeezy trademark, but up until now Adidas was getting 85%. And now after this, they either out of business with me or they going to get 10%. I decided not to not make it 15. I decided to make it 10. That was extremely good. That was extremely bad. I'm going to win in 2020. Out. Well, hello, Georgia. My friend, Senator David Perdue, the former governor Sonny Perdue, Congressman Rick Allen, Congressman William Timmons, the great state party chair for the GOP, David Shafer, my fellow Americans, it is great to be back in the peach state. The fight is on. And you know, it's great to be here with so many friends. And speaking of friends of mine, allow me to bring greetings from another friend of mine, and a man who has been fighting every day to keep the promises that he made to the people of Georgia. I bring greetings and thanks from the 45th president of the United States of America, President Donald Trump. You know, with the support of people all across Georgia and all across this country, it's amazing. This president and our team received more than 74 million votes across America, 10 million more votes than four years ago. We received the greatest share of minority votes of any Republican candidate for president in 60 years, and we added more than a dozen seats already to the United States Congress. And we're going to put two more in the winning column when we send Georgian senators back to Washington DC. You know, I'm here because I stand with president Donald Trump, and we stand with Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Loeffler. And together with your two great senators, we're fighting every day for integrity in our elections, and we're fighting every day to hold the line and save the majority in the United States Senate. That's really why I'm here, that's why the president was in Valdosta on Saturday, and that's why I'm so grateful that you all came out to this gathering in Augusta today. I don't know if you heard about it. So far, just in the last few days, 18 States have joined the Lone Star State to defend the integrity of our elections before the highest court in the land. President Donald Trump deserves his day in court, the Supreme court. And all I can say is God bless Texas. But men and women of Georgia, I'll tell you, as our election contests continue here in Georgia and in States across the country, I'll make you a promise. We're going to keep fighting until every legal vote is counted. We're going to keep fighting until every illegal vote is thrown out, and we will never stop fighting to make America great again. That's why president Trump and I need David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back in a Republican majority in the United States Senate. For all we've done, for all we have yet to do, we need the peach state to defend the majority because the road to a Senate majority runs right through the state of Georgia. Are you with me? I'm here on the president's behalf because we need Georgia to send these two great senators back to Washington, DC. We need to send them back for three reasons. We need to send them back because of who they are, we need to send them back because of all we've accomplished together, and we need to send them back because the Republican majority could be the last line of defense to preserve all we've done to defend this nation, revive our economy and preserve the God given liberties we hold dear. We need to hold the line, Georgia. And first off, I'm on here just like Governor Perdue said, I'm here… And he hadn't even my cousin, I'm here because of who these people are. David Perdue's a son of Macon. He worked his way to the top of the business world, could have spent the rest of his life in leisure, but as you heard his cousin say, he and his family went to their knees and they felt a calling to serve. After 40 years as one of the most successful business leaders in America, he answered the call to serve Georgia in the United States Senate. And I can tell you, having served alongside of this good man every day, I know of no more principled conservative man of integrity or champion of President Trump's agenda in the United States Senate than Senator David Perdue. We need him back. And I'm also here because of his colleague in the Senate. Fourth generation family farmer, grew up in the Heartland of America, but got here to Georgia just as every bit as quick as she could. Built her own company from the ground up. You know, her story, she broke barriers in business and sports to become one of the most successful business women in Georgia history. And in a very short period of time, I can tell you… … and in a very short period of time, I can tell you, she has emerged as one of the most courageous and principled conservative voices in the United States Senate. We need Senator Kelly Loeffler back in Washington, D.C. So President Trump and I need you to support these senators, to get your family, and your neighbors, and your friends, to do the same because of who they are. But it's also because of all that we've been able to do with their support. I mean think about it. Four years ago we inherited a military that'd been hollowed out by reckless budget cuts, an economy that was struggling to break out of the slowest recovery since the Great Depression. Terrorism was on the rise and we witnessed a steady assault on our most cherished values. With the unwavering support of both of Georgia's senators, under the leadership of President Donald Trump we rebuilt our military. We revived our economy. We secured our border, stood with law enforcement, and fought for life and liberty, and the Constitution of the United States of America. It's true. You know, I have to tell you, a lot of you know me as your vice president, but the highest title I'll ever hold is D-A-D, and I couldn't be more proud to be the father and the father-in-law of two military fighter pilots. And I couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who cares so deeply about the men and women of our armed forces. With the support of your senators President Donald Trump has signed the largest increases in our national defense since the days of Ronald Reagan. We're finally giving our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guard, the support they need to defend this nation. I can tell you, from his seat on the Senate Armed Services Committee Senator David Perdue has been there for our military every step of the way. Thank you, senator. It's not just been about those who serve today, but it's also about those of you who did serve in the uniform of the United States. You remember the last administration. We saw years of scandal at the VA that shocked the conscience of the nation. But when President Donald Trump came into office, with the help of your two senators, those days were over. President Trump signed the most sweeping reforms of the VA in 50 years. We fired 5,000 VA employees that weren't giving our veterans the care that you earned, and Veterans Choice is now available for every veteran in America. From her seat on the Veterans Affairs Committee, Senator Kelly Loeffler was there for America's veterans every step of the way. And with that renewed American strength, rebuilding our military, restoring the arsenal of democracy, we took the fight to our enemies on our terms on their soil, and we've stood with our allies as never before. At the direction of this Commander in Chief, the armed forces of the United States took down the last inch of territory under the black flag of ISIS and took out their leader without one American casualty. And when the most dangerous terrorist in the world, a man responsible for the death of hundreds of American service members was in our sights, President Donald Trump took him out. Qasem Soleimani is gone. We've stood up to our enemies, but we've also stood with our most cherished ally as never before. You know, four presidents in a row had made the promise to the American people, but it was President Donald Trump who kept his promise when we moved the American Embassy to Jerusalem, the capital of the State of Israel. And Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Loeffler were there every step of the way. So it's been about America's place in the world, our national security, but it's also been about our prosperity these last four years. After the slowest recovery in 75 years, President Trump worked with your senators and we revived our economy. We cut taxes across the board for working families and businesses large and small. We rolled back more federal regulation than any administration in history. We fought for free and fair trade, unleashed American energy, and in three short years we saw seven million good-paying jobs created, including 350,000 right here in the State of Georgia. And your senators were there every step of the way. As we made our way this year through one of the most challenging years in our lifetimes on that solid foundation that we poured of less taxes, less regulation, a growing American economy, at the height of the coronavirus pandemic we'd lost 22 million jobs, with the strong support of your two senators, with the relief efforts that President Trump secured from Congress, we've been opening up America again. We've already seen 12 million Americans go back to work. The American comeback is happening. Speaking of that pandemic, I have to tell you how grateful we are to Senator Perdue and Senator Loeffler for their support all along the way. At President Trump's direction early this year, we launched the greatest national mobilization since World War II. We reinvented testing. We saw the delivery of billions of medical supplies to our doctors, and nurses, and hospitals. We managed to distribute hundreds of thousands of medicines and therapeutics. And as I stand here today, while the other side said it would never happen, it would take a miracle, we're just a few days away from the approval of the first coronavirus vaccine for the American people, and millions of doses. America is in the miracle business under President Donald Trump. And again your senators were there every step of the way. Frankly, when it comes to the foundation of our prosperity and the rule of law, I couldn't be more grateful that with the support of Senator Perdue and Senator Loeffler President Trump and I have seen more than 220 conservative judges confirmed to our federal courts at every level, including Justice Neil Gorsuch, Justice Brett Kavanaugh, and Justice Amy Coney Barrett. I'll tell you, those three justices and all those judges are all men and women who will uphold all the God-given liberties enshrined in our constitution. Like the freedom of religion, the freedom of speech, and the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. Keep and bear arms. You want. The last administration, you all remember it? We saw a steady assault on our values and our freedom It especially trampled on the religious liberty of Americans. You remember. I mean, literally, the last administration used the power of the federal government to compromise the conscience rights of doctors and nurses and religious charities. They even hauled a group of nuns, known as the Little Sisters of the Poor, into federal court to order them to compromise their faith, to live under the mandates of Obamacare. They're promising to do it again, aren't they, Senator? But we saw religious intolerance among the Democrats unlike to which we would see again, if they got control of the Senate. I mean, you all remember a couple of years ago when Amy Coney Barrett was up for another judgeship. She was before the Senate Judiciary Committee and the leading Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, actually told Amy Coney Barrett that she was concerned about her sincere Catholic faith. She said, and I quote, "The dogma lives loudly within you." Hollywood liberals have been attacking Amy Coney Barrett ever since for her faith and for values. Well, I got news for the Democrats in Washington and their friends in Hollywood. That dogma lives loudly in me. That dogma lives loudly in you and the right to live and worship, according to the dictates of our faith lives loudly in the Constitution of the United States of America. For our liberties, for our freedoms, for the ability to live and to work and to worship, according to the dictates of our conscience, we need a Republican majority in the United States Senate. We need David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back in Washington, DC. I don't have to tell all of you who've come out on this sunny day. The stakes in this election has never been higher. The choice in this election has never been clearer. I mean, I'm here because of who they are. I'm here because of all we've done, but I'm here because this choice is so stark, where David Perdue, Kelly Loeffler stand for strong national defense, Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock are going to cut our national defense to fund their big government program. You just watch. Where David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler cut taxes, Jon Ossoff and the radical liberal Raphael Warnock want to raise taxes on working families and businesses, large and small. Where David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler support our military, Raphael Warnock has demeaned our military and he's repeatedly defended the antisemitic rhetoric of Reverend Jeremiah Wright. Maybe, most close to my heart, where Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock support abortion on demand and taxpayer funding of abortion all the way up to the moment of birth.,David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler will always stand for the right to life. Thank you, Dan. You all know what the stakes are here in Georgia. I mean, Chuck Schumer couldn't have said it better, right? Chuck Schumer said, "Now, we take Georgia, then we change America. Well, I got another message for Chuck Schumer and the Washington Democrats. We're going to keep Georgia. We're going to save the Senate, and then we're going to save America. I mean, for real. Our agenda is American greatness. Their agenda is American decline. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock advance a socialist agenda of higher taxes, open borders, government takeover of healthcare, a green new deal, defunding the police, packing the courts. That's just for starters. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock are wrong for Georgia and wrong for America. That's why we need Georgia to say no to Ossoff and Warnock and yes to Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Loeffler on January 5th. But, I came here today to say from my heart what you heard the President say the other night in Valdosta, and I need you to say to all of your neighbors and friends. In these challenging times in the life of our nation, Georgia, stay in the fight. Stay the fight for integrity In our elections. Stay in the fight to defend the Republican majority in the Senate and stay in the fight until the polls close on January 5th, and we send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to Washington, DC. Stay in the fight to keep America great. That's what's on the line, to preserve the progress that we've made, to protect our values and our liberties. We need you to do a couple of things, folks. First off, we need you to vote Georgia. Vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to the United States Senate. I'm talking basics now. I'm told, you can actually request an absentee ballot today. If you need information you can go to Georgiavotinginfo. com. They got everything you need. You have until December 31st to request an absentee ballot. I want you to be confident about your vote. Our great GOP State Chair, David Shafer, and the senators will tell you, "We're on them this time. We're watching. We're going to secure the polls. We're going to secure the drop boxes." So, get an absentee ballot in today and vote. Don't wait. Get it done. If you don't want to vote by mail, I'm told in-person voting starts this coming Monday. Mark your calendar. Come Monday morning, I checked, you can go to the Bell Auditorium, 712 Telfair Street, right here in Augusta, 8:30 to 5:00. Remember, friends don't let friends vote alone. Bring your family. … friends don't let friends vote alone, bring a family member, bring a neighbor, bring a friend and vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to Washington, DC. I know we all got doubts about this last election. I know I do, but I actually hear some people saying, "If you're in the Peach State, just don't vote." My fellow Americans, if you don't vote, they win. If you don't vote, there could be nothing to stop Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi from cutting our military, raising taxes and passing their agenda of the radical left. So I want to say to you from my heart, for all we've done, for all we have yet to do, for our president, for our future, for Georgia and for America, cast another vote for all President Trump has accomplished. Cast a vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to the United States Senate. And I promise you, we're going to keep on fighting. We can fight for our president and fight for more Republicans in the Senate at the same time. We've done both. We're going to keep doing both. We're going to keep fighting to Make America Great Again. So here's the deal. Here's the deal, Georgia. It might all come down to you. And Georgia has got to hold the line on January 5th. Will you do it? I'll tell you. I have no doubt you will. I really do. But I want to challenge you right after you vote, either absentee or early in person or come January 5th. Whenever you cast that vote, just spend every other minute that you have reaching out to your neighbors and friends. Tell them, "I was out at the airport in Augusta the other day, I ran into Mike. The President was down in Valdosta. These guys just keep coming back to Georgia." You got to tell people reelecting these two great Senators isn't just about Georgia, it's about America. Go tell your neighbors and friends. It's on the line. Tell them everything we talked about today. Everything that we've done, everything we have yet to do. It all comes down to the Peach State, but I leave here today with renewed confidence. I got to tell you, seeing this big crowd out today, I got a feeling we're going to bank a big win come January five. How about you? We live in uncertain times, don't we? In my house we have a saying, we don't know what the future holds, but we know who holds the future. So as we work, stand with our president, protect the integrity of our elections. As we work to save the majority in the United States Senate, I'd encourage you if you're ever mind to do one more thing. If from time to time, you bow the head and bend the knee, I'd encourage you to do that too. Be a good time to pray for Georgia and pray for America. And in these divided times, I'd encourage you to pray with confidence. Claim that ancient promise that Americans have clung to in much more challenging times than we could even imagine. That if his people, who are called by his name will humble themselves and pray and turn, he'll do like he's always done in the long and storied history of this state and nation. He'll hear from heaven and he'll heal this land. This one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. So pray for America and pray for all of those standing in the gap for everything we hold dear. But I want to thank you for coming out today. And I just know if all of us do all that we need to do between now and January 5th. I know if Georgia votes your values and your convictions. If you vote to send David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to a Republican majority in the United States Senate, if you keep standing with this president until every legal vote is counted, that with the support of people all across this state and with God's help, we're going to keep on winning. We're going to defend the Senate. We're going to keep Making America Great Again. We will win Georgia and save America. Now let's go get it done, Georgia. 20 years from now, 30 years from now, I want young people all across the South Side of Chicago, all across Chicago, all across America, to be able to look at this Center and say, "This is a sign I count. And this is a sign that I can change the world." Hello, everybody. This day has been a long time coming. We had originally hoped to hold a bigger festive event, but the pandemic had other plans. So we're keeping this small for now, but to everyone who is watching, including so many who were part of my administration, so many who've worked tirelessly to make this day possible, please know how incredibly grateful I am and how much I am looking forward to celebrating with all of you in person as soon as we can. I want to start by thanking Trenton for that outstanding introduction and  smile. Is that a good one? All right. Now, we're going to lift up the dirt. Yeah. That's some nice dirt, by the way. All right. And now, I guess we're going to toss the dirt up. One, two, three. That's it. Thank you, Maurice. And can we hear it for State Senator Biaggi and Assemblywoman Niou, fabulous. Hello, New York. Now, some of you know this. I never thought I'd get into politics, not in a million years, but when I got into this fight, I quickly found out nobody makes it on their own. If you're going to make any kind of progress in this country, you need allies who know how to fight. And more importantly, you need allies who know how to win. The Working Families Party has been on the front lines of fighting for racial and economic justice and building a grassroots movement to elect the next generation and I am honored to have their support. And tonight with all of you as witnesses, I'm going to make a promise and that is when I'm in the White House, working families will have a champion. Thank you Maurice and thank you to the Working Families Party. Now when so many good people show up, I usually do a town hall followed by selfies. Tonight, it's a little something different. I want to tell you a story that I haven't had a chance to tell before. It's an important story about our past and about our future. But I'll stay afterwards for as long as anyone wants to take selfies. Some things we just don't mess with. So I am especially glad to be here in Washington Square Park. I wanted to give this speech right here and not because of the arch behind me or the president that this square is named for, nope. We are not here today because of famous arches or famous men. In fact, we're not here because of men at all. We're here because of some hardworking women. Women, who more than a 100 years ago worked long hours in a brown, 10 story building, just a block that way. Women who worked at the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory. So here's what I want you to hear. It was March 25th, 1911, it was a Saturday. And at about 4:45 in the afternoon, people walking through this very park looked up and saw black smoke billowing into the sky. A fire had started in that building and inside that building on the top three floors, deadly flames leaped from a bin to the oily floors and from the floors to the walls sweeping across workrooms and trapping the workers fighting for their lives. Women, girls really, some as young as 14 raced to escape, but the exit doors were locked. Others ran to the windows, waving their arms and screaming for help. No help was coming. The fire department's ladders could only reach to the sixth floor. The flames leaped higher and women started crawling out onto the ledges. And as people on the ground stood in shocked silence, a woman jumped and then another and then another. They hit the ground with a sickening thud. They died on impact so many so fast that the women's bodies piled up on the sidewalk. Their blood ran into the gutters. Dozens more were tracked inside, trapped because the door to the staircase was locked, locked by bosses afraid that the workers might steal scraps of cloth. Firefighters would later find a pile of burned bodies next to that locked door. It took 18 minutes for 146 people to die. Mostly women, mostly immigrants, Jewish and Italian, mostly people who made as little as five dollars a week to get their shot at the American dream. It was one of the worst industrial disasters in American history, one of the worst, but it should not have been a surprise. For years across the city, women factory workers and their allies had been sounding the alarm about dangerous and squalid conditions. Fighting for shorter hours and higher pay. They protested, they went on strike, they got coverage in the press. Everyone knew about these problems, but the fat profits were making New York's factory owners rich and they had no plans to give that up. Instead of changing conditions at the factories, the owners worked their political connections. They made campaign contributions and talked with their friends in the legislature. They had greased the state government so thoroughly that nothing changed. Business owners got richer, politicians got more powerful and working people paid the price. Does any of this sound familiar? Take any big problem we have in America today and you don't have to dig very deep to see the same system at work. Climate change, gun safety, healthcare. On the face of it these three are totally different issues, but despite our being the strongest and wealthiest country in the history of the world, our democracy is paralyzed. And why? Because giant corporations have bought off our government. Americans are killed by floods and fires in a rapidly warming planet. Why? Because huge fossil fuel corporations have bought off our government. Americans are killed with unthinkable speed and efficiency in our streets and our stores and our schools. Why? Because the gun industry has bought off our government. Americans are dying because they can't afford to fill prescriptions or pay for treatment. Why? Because health insurance companies and drug companies have bought off our government. Now, Americans disagree on many things, but we don't want each other's homes burned down by wildfires. We don't want each other's children murdered at school and we don't want each other's families bankrupted by medical bills. What we want is for our government to do something. And yet, our federal government is unable to act, unable to take even the most basic steps to protect the American people. Now when you see a government that works great for those with money and connections and doesn't work for much of anyone else, that's corruption plain and simple and we need to call it out for what it is! Corruption has put our planet at risk. Corruption has broken our economy, and corruption is breaking our democracy. I know what's broken, I've got a plan to fix it and hat's why I'm running for President of the United States. There it is. . Okay, so let's start with the obvious. Donald Trump is corruption in the flesh. He's sworn to serve the people of the United States, but he only serves himself and his partners in corruption. He tries to divide us, white against black, Christians against Muslim, straight against queer and trans and everyone against immigrants. Queer and trans and everyone against immigrants. Because if we're all busy fighting each other, no one will notice that he and his buddies are stealing more and more of our country's wealth, and destroying the future for everyone else. Now, as bad as things are, we have to recognize our problems didn't start with Donald Trump. He made them worse, but we need to take a deep breath and recognize that a country that elects Donald Trump is already in serious trouble. Republican politicians sold out a long time ago, filling the courts with judges who expand the rights of corporations while they destroy the rights of citizens, passing tax cuts for wealthy donors while doing nothing to help working families, and sucking up corporate donations while lying about climate change, lying about guns and lying about health care. And too many politicians in both parties have convinced themselves that playing the money for influence game is the only way to get something done. So, what has this corrupt business as usual gotten us the extinction of one species after another as the earth heats up, children slaughtered by assault weapons, the highest levels of inequality in a century, wages that barely budge, crippling student loan debt, shrinking opportunity for the next generation, and the one after that, and the one after that. The American people get it and they are sick of it. Corruption has taken over our government and we're running out of time. We must rooted out and return our democracy to the people. And yes, I got a plan for that. Okay, so, I got a lot of plans, but they all come back to one simple idea: put economic and political power in the hands of the people. Yeah. And we start by rooting out corruption in government. No more business as usual. Let's attack corruption head on. You ready? So, I've got the biggest anti-corruption plan since Watergate. It's a plan to shut down the ability of the rich and powerful to use their money to tilt every decision in Washington. So, I just want to give you a sample of what we can do. End lobbying as we know it. We can do this. No high ranking public official should be thinking about their next job while they're collecting a paycheck to represent the American people. So I have a lifetime ban on senators, congressmen, and cabinet secretaries from ever being lobbyists. And no more hiring corporate lobbyists to staff up the federal government. Look, the right of every person in this country to petition their government does not protect a multibillion dollar influence industry, whose sole purpose is to undermine democracy and tilt every decision in favor of those who can pay. So, let's shut this industry down and return our government to the people. Oh, and there's more. No more secret meetings. Every single meeting between a lobbyist and a public official should be a matter of public record. No more lobbying on behalf of foreign governments, and no more campaign contributions or bundling by lobbyists. Contributing to a campaign at the same time that you're paid to influence those same elected officials is the very definition of bribery, and we're going to put a stop to it. And here's another. Anyone, anyone, who wants to run for federal office will have to put their tax returns online. And there's more. Presidents, cabinet members, members of Congress will be barred from owning businesses on the side, barred from trading in individual stocks. You know, look, take care of the people's business or take care of your own business, but you can't do both at the same time. Corruption and influence peddling has seeped into every corner of our government, so it's time for some new plans for our regulators. Far too many agencies act like wholly owned subsidiaries of the companies they are supposed to regulate. When these agencies are captured, the results are pollution and financial advisers who cheat people, all while regulators look the other way. Enough is enough. We're going to take down the for sale signs hanging outside of every federal building in Washington. Oh, and here's another one. It's also time to call out corruption in the federal judiciary. Increasingly, bigshot corporate lawyers are getting appointed as federal judges, and they turn out one decision after another in favor of corporations and against the interests of American consumers, against unions and against vulnerable people who must count on the courts to protect their rights. Shadowy right wing groups have spent millions of dollars to ram through aggressively unqualified nominees who are likely to advance their causes. No one should be surprised that public confidence in our federal courts is at an all time low, but we can fix it. We will rewrite the basic code of ethics for federal judges, and we will appoint a whole new generation of judges with diverse backgrounds and a wide range of legal experiences. Judges who actually believe in fundamental principles like rule of law, civil rights, and equal justice. And finally, we will end the corruption of our campaign finance system, overturn Citizens United. Democracy is not for sale. Get rid of super PACs and secret spending by the billionaires, and break the big donors' stranglehold by creating a system of public funding for our elections. Look, I get it. I know that some people will always have more money, so they can own more shoes or more clothes than other people, but no one should own more of our democracy. Corruption comes in other forms, too, and I have plans for those. A planned end, the corrupt practice of selling fancy ambassadorships to wealthy donors, because American diplomacy should not be for sale. A plan to abolish private prisons. No one should make a profit locking people up, and no one should have a financial incentive to lobby Congress to lock up even more people. A plan to stop selling access to federal lands and national parks to giant polluters. And to break the stranglehold of the coal industry and the oil industry in energy production and transportation. And yeah, when we're talking corruption, we need to call it out in the Oval Office. I read all 448 pages of the Mueller report. No one is above the law, not even the United States president. Impeachment is our constitutional duty. So, there it is. So, there it is. Step one: tackle corruption head on. Step two: transform our economy so that every person, no matter where they live, no matter who their parents are, no matter how much money they have, every person has real opportunity. The chance to work hard, to play by the same set of rules, and to take care of themselves and the people they love. Corruption in Washington has allowed the rich and the powerful to tilt the rules and grow richer and more powerful. But this small slice at the top hasn't just scooped up a huge chunk of the wealth that all of us have worked so hard to produce. They have gobbled up opportunity itself. For the rich and the powerful in this country. There are first, second, third, and fourth chances to get ahead. But for a lot of Americans, especially for people of color, there is barely one, or for some, no chance at all. We have the power to fix that. We are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. We can afford Medicare for all to save our people and a Green New Deal to save our planet. We just need real investments in working people. So, let's start with more power in the hands of workers. Make it easier to join a union and give unions more power when they negotiate. And yes, it's time for a wealth tax. Yes! Yes, that is a 2 cent tax on fortunes over $50 million. Your first 50 million, don't worry, you're in the clear. But for your 50 millionth and 1st dollar, you got to pitch in 2 cents, and 2 cents for every dollar after that, just two cents. So, I look at it this way. You built a great fortune here in this country, worked hard, stayed up late, unlike anyone else. Yeah, you worked hard, you built a great fortune, or you inherited one. Good for you. But I guarantee that any great fortune in America was built, at least in part, using workers all of us helped pay to educate. Built at least in part getting your goods to market on roads and bridges all of us helped pay to build. Built, at least in part, protected by police and firefighters. All of us help pay their salaries. And we're happy to do it. This is America. We're happy to invest in opportunities for everyone. But we're saying that if you make it big, really big, really, really big, the top one 10th of 1%, bigger than $50 million, then pitch in two cents so everyone else gets a chance to make it. Yeah. And what can we do with two cents? Oh, universal child care for every baby in this country age zero to five, universal pre-K for every three year old and four year olds in America, and raise the wages of every childcare worker and preschool teacher in this country. All that for two cents and more. We can make technical school, community college and four year college tuition free for everyone who wants to get an education. And we can truly level the playing field, and put $50 billion directly into our historically black colleges and universities, and other minority serving institutions. All of that, and we can cancel student loan debt for 95% of the folks who've got it. So, think of what that means. Real opportunity, not just opportunity for people born into privilege, opportunity for everyone. And opportunity, real opportunity, requires honesty. Working families all across this country have been denied the opportunities they deserve. But the path for Black and Brown and Native families has been even steeper. And that is why my plans tackle historical injustice head on. And here are a few examples. My student debt cancellation plan will help close the wealth gap between black and white families. My criminal justice plan well end the practice of mass incarceration that has destroyed the lives of so many Black and Brown men. My housing plan will help families living in formerly redlined areas buy a home and start building the kind of wealth that government-sponsored discrimination denied their parents and grandparents. My climate plan includes justice for the Black and Brown communities that have struggled with the impact of pollution. And my plan respects the rights of Native Americans to protect their lands and be good stewards of this Earth. And on day one of my administration, I love the thought of what a president can do all by herself. On day one of my administration, I will use my executive authority to start closing the pay gap between women of color and everyone else because it's about time we valued the work of women of color. We must recognize the systemic discrimination that infects our economy, and we must work actively and deliberately to root it out and set this country on a better path. The time for holding back is over. We need big, structural change. Now, I know what some of you are thinking. I do. Whoa, too much. Too big. Too hard. Okay, nobody here, but we know there's some people over there, way, way out. Okay. But, you know, I know this change is possible, and I know it because America has made big, structural change before. Let me take you back to the day of that fire. A woman was visiting friends who lived in a townhouse right behind me. When the fire broke out, she hurried into the street. She joined the crowds as they ran across the park and headed to the triangle factory. And when she got there, she stood and she watched. She watched as women on the ledge, begged for help. She watched as they held each other. She watched as they jumped to their deaths. The woman watching was Francis Perkins. She was 30 years old and already a worker's rights activist, but that day set change in motion. A week later, the women's trade unions organized a funeral March and a half a million people showed up to march on Fifth Avenue right behind me. Half a million people in 1911. And it wasn't their first march, but this time it was different. While the women of the trade unions kept pushing from the outside, Francis pushed from the inside. She understood that those women died because of the greed of their bosses and the corruption of elected officials. So, she went up to Albany ready to fight. She worked to create a commission investigating factory conditions, and then she served as its lead investigator. Now, everybody just remember, this was years before women could even vote, let alone hold major roles in government. But Francis had a plan. She and her fellow activists fought for fire safety and they got it. So, the next time you do a fire drill at school or at work, you see a plainly marked fire exit, think of Francis and the Triangle Women, because they are the reason the laws changed. But they didn't stop with fire safety. With Francis working the system from the inside, and the women workers organizing and applying pressure from the outside, they rewrote New York state's labor laws from top to bottom, to protect workers. Now, over time, Francis Perkins became the state's leading expert on working conditions, and later, when Franklin Roosevelt was elected governor, he appointed her to head his labor department in Albany. And four years after that, in the depths of the Great Depression, when Roosevelt became president, he asked Francis to come to Washington to address the crisis as Secretary of Labor for the entire nation. Francis Perkins became the first woman in history to serve in the cabinet. Yeah. And what did she push for when she got there? Big structural change. She used the same model that she and her friends had used after the Triangle Fire. She worked the political system relentlessly from the inside, while a sustained movement applied pressure from the outside. As Francis Perkins put it, the Triangle Fire was the day the New Deal was born. So, here's what I want you to think about. What did one woman, one very persistent woman, one woman backed up by millions of people across this country get done? Social security, unemployment insurance, abolition of child labor, minimum wage, the right to join a union, and even the very existence of the weekend! That's big, structural change! One woman and millions of people to back her up. The tragic story of the Triangle Factory Fire is a story about power, a story of what happens when the rich and the powerful take control of government and use it to increase their own profits while they stick it to working people. But what happened in the aftermath of the fire is a different story about power. A story about our power, a story about what's possible when we fight together as one. Over and over throughout our history, Americans have been told that big, structural change just wasn't possible, and that they should just give up. The abolitionists were told, "It's just too hard. Give up now." The suffragettes were told, "Too hard. Give up now." The early union organizers were told, "It's just too hard. Give up now." Foot soldiers in the Civil Rights Movement were told, "Too hard. Give up now." LGBTQ activists were told, "It's just too hard. Give up now." But they didn't give up! No. They didn't give up. They organized, they built a grassroots movement. They persisted, and they changed the course of American history. 2020 is about the direction our America goes, not just for four years, but for generations to come. And yeah, there's a lot at stake in this election, and I know people are scared, but we can't choose a candidate we don't believe in just because we're too scared to do anything else. And Democrats can't win if we're scared and looking backward. We win when we meet the moment. We win when we stand up for what is right. We win when we get out there and fight. I am not afraid. And you can't be afraid either. So, if you're ready to fight, then join me. Go to elizabethwarren.com, help us organize, volunteer, donate five bucks, text FIGHT to 24477. We need everyone.