we love Alice Johnson? This could not have been done by anyone other than the Republican party.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  Our historic investments in the United States military include $200 million to a place that nobody's heard of in this audience, I'm sure, Fort Bragg.  $300 million for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point.  More than $500 million for Marine Corps Air Station New River.  Listen to this one.  No Democrat's going to this.  They don't even want to spend money on the military.  They don't like the military.  They're not going to spend money.  $1. 2 billion for Camp Lejeune.  $1. 2 billion.  Do you think that a guy like sleepy Joe's going to put, he doesn't know what it means.  I know what I means.  We have to have a strong military.  We have the strongest military we've ever had.  When I came in, our military was in sad shape.  It was depleted, but we've rebuilt it, $2. 5 trillion dollars went into our military.  01] is the actual survival of an our nation itself.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings of generations of Americans who fought and died to secure, and you know what they're securing, they are securing us, they're securing our freedom, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November, November 3rd to be exact.  Only this way can we save the America we love, and drain the Washington swamp, which is by the way, much more vicious, much dirtier, much deeper than I ever thought, but we are kicking ass.  With your help, we will lift billions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration, and we will continue with the great Thom Tillis.  We will get Thom Tillis.  Thom, I don't think anybody even wants to run against you, Thom, but we're going to reelect Thom Tillis.  Is that right? We're going to reelect Thom Tillis.  If we don't, I'm going to be so angry at you.  I'll only come back here a few times a year.  No, Thom is going to be great.  Thom, I think you're in great shape.  I think you're in great shape.  One more hand for Thom Tillis, please.  We don't even know who's running against him.  Nobody wants the run.  We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful, beautiful, beautiful phrase Made in the USA, right? Made in the USA.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in less than nine years.  We've already started.  Who would have thought? We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms.  Your second amendment rights are under siege.  Believe me, they're under siege.  We don't get in, you can forget your second amendment.  That's what I think.  I really believe it.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that binds us together as one beautiful America.  We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work, and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  We live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust.  From Fayetteville to Wilmington, from Raleigh to Greensboro, from Asheville to Kitty Hawk, to right here in Charlotte, this state is the home to some of the toughest men and strongest women, and most incredible patriots ever to walk the face of the Earth.  We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, blazed the trail, sailed the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industry, won two world wars, defeated fascism, and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater every single day.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people, that's what's happening.  With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come.  Because together, we have made America wealthy again.  We have made America strong again.  We have made America proud again.  We have made America safe again, and we have made America great again.  Thank you.  Thank you, North Carolina.  Thank you. 



Thank you all.  Thank you very much.  Thank you to Vice President Mike Pence, and hello Cincinnati.  You know, I used to work in Cincinnati, a place called Swifton Village.  You know what that is? Swifton Village? It was good and it worked out well, and it gives you confidence when things work out well at a young age, and look what happened to all of us, right? Look what happened.  Look what happened.  I was watching the so-called debate last night, and I also watched the night before that was long, long television.  The Democrats spent more time attacking Barack Obama than they did attacking me practically.  This morning, that's all the fake news was talking about.  It's all they were talking about.  That wasn't pretty.  No, we're doing good.  It's great to be back in the state that I love.  I love this state.  Very special.  Very, very special, on the banks of the beautiful Ohio River with the hardworking patriots of the American heartland.  Thank you, Ohio.  We love you, Ohio.  We've got thousands of people standing outside, and I asked the officials can we sneak some up along the aisles? Can they sit on the stairs? But I'll tell you what, this is some crowd, some turnout.  We've sold tens of thousands of tickets.  And, you know what the sale price is? We keep it nice and low.  We keep it nice and low.  But, there never has been a movement like this.  This is a movement the likes of which they've never seen before, maybe anywhere, but certainly in this country.  They've never seen anything like this before.  You came from the mountains and the valleys and the rivers, and you came for … I mean, look, from wherever you came from.  There were a lot of you.  And, they showed up on election day.  I'll never forget, a wonderful congressman from Tennessee.  They have early voting, and one of the earliest places, great state, Tennessee, and he was in Pennsylvania with me, great state.  And he said, "You know, sir, I've been doing this for a long time, but I've never seen people like this show up for early voting.  People that haven't voted in a long time because they didn't see anybody they wanted to vote for. " He said, "I've never seen it.  They have Trump banners, and Trump hats, and Trump buttons.  I've never seen it. " This great congressman said, "I don't know, sir, but I can tell you one thing.  If the rest of the country is voting like Tennessee is voting, you're going to win by a lot. " And, we won, and we won by a lot.  We won by a lot.  Our nation is stronger today than ever before.  The number one economy on earth.  No economy is so strong.  We're rebuilding the awesome might of the United States military, and soon it will be stronger relatively speaking than at any time in our history, and when we took over, it was depleted.  We took over a depleted military.  It's not depleted anymore, I can tell you that.  Our spirit is strong.  Our stride is back and our stand is clear.  We are finally putting America first.  It's about time.  We've created six million new jobs since election day.  Nobody would've thought that was possible.  More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps, and they're happy.  They're happy.  123,000 more Ohio workers are employed today than when I was elected.  Think of that number.  And, right now, Ohio is the most successful it's ever been in the history of our country.  Thank you.  Congratulations, Ohio.  Stand up, Mike.  And, you have a good governor.  I want to tell you that.  Good job.  Mike.  Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over half a century and unemployment for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans have all reached the lowest rates ever recorded.  While Republicans are working every day to build up our country, the rage-filled Democrat Party is trying to tear America apart.  The Democrat Party is now being led by four left wing extremists who reject everything that we hold dear.  No one has paid a higher price for the far left's destructive agenda than Americans living in our nation's inner cities.  They have paid a dear price.  Do you see what's happening? You see our inner cities, we spend billions and billions and billions for years and years and years, and it's stolen money and it's wasted money and it's a shame.  For decades, these communities have been run exclusively by democratic politicians, and it's been total one party control of the inner cities.  For a hundred years, it's been one party control and look at them.  We can name one after another, but I won't do that because I don't want to be controversial.  We want no controversy.  No controversy.  The democrat record is one of neglect and corruption and decay.  Total decay.  The Democrats have tax and regulated jobs and opportunity out of these cities and out of existence.  They've squeezed the blood out of them.  Left wing mayors and city councils have opposed school choice, trapping children and failing in government schools left and right.  So many of these mayors right now, you know where they are? They're in jail, that's where they are.  Republicans believe that every parent has the right to send their children to the school of their choice, but the greatest betrayal committed by the Democrats is their support for open borders.  These open borders would overwhelm schools and hospitals, drain public services, and flood communities with poisonous drugs.  It's tough enough, and I want to thank, by the way, the country of Mexico.  They've got 21,000 soldiers on the border right now.  I'm starting to like Mexico a lot.  They do a lot more for us than the Democrats do, right? A lot more, a lot more.  And, the numbers are way down.  You'll see that.  Way, way down.  Democrat lawmakers care more about illegal aliens than they care about their own constituents.  They put foreign citizens before American citizens.  We're not going to do that.  572 people were murdered in Chicago last year.  So, you got a lot of hot people outside, but we broke the all time record.  The homicide rate in Baltimore is significantly higher than El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala.  I believe it's higher than … Give me a place that you think is pretty bad.  Give me a place.  The guy says Afghanistan.  I believe it's higher than Afghanistan in our country.  Think of that.  I believe, we'll check the numbers and if we're wrong, they will tell us tomorrow.  It'll be headlines.  Trump exaggerated.  I do believe the rate is higher than Afghanistan, yet Democrats, and they've run it for many years, want to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on illegal migrants instead of supporting their own struggling communities.  No good, no good.  The conditions in Nancy Pelosi's once great city of San Francisco are deplorable.  They're deplorable.  Do you remember the word deplorable? Do you remember when Hillary used the deplorable? She used two words.  She used deplorable and irredeemable, right? And only being a politician for a few years.  I said what a terrible mistake that she used the word irredeemable, but it turned out to be deplorable.  Deplorable was not a good day for Hillary.  Crooked Hillary.  She is a crooked one She's crooked.  She is crooked.  Nearly half of all the homeless people living in the streets in America happen to live in the state of California.  What they are doing to our beautiful California is a disgrace to our country.  It's a shame the world is looking at it.  Look at Los Angeles, with the tents and the horrible, horrible, disgusting conditions.  Look at San Francisco.  Look at some of your other cities, and then you have a governor … You have a governor that invites the whole world to come into California.  We'll pay for your healthcare.  Then you wonder why so many people are coming up.  They're coming up because we're the hottest economic country in the world, but they're also coming up because you have people like that governor say, "Come on up.  We'll give you healthcare.  Come. " Who wouldn't come up? Who wouldn't come up? How crazy is this? How crazy is this? Schools, healthcare.  Today, I've a simple proposal for Democrat leaders to support legislation to end illegal migration, and we will use the vast savings to rebuild our inner cities.  That's the way we should be doing it.  That's what we should be doing.  By the way, you know, they keep talking about, " Oh, the voters, the voters, the voters. " They want all sorts of security.  What about a thing called voter ID? Voter identification? Rob Portman, please work on that, Rob Portman.  You have a great senator.  Would you please start working on that? You see the response.  Every place I go, Rob.  Please, Rob.  Voter ID.  They give you everything they can give you except voter ID and the things that matter.  Republicans believe that a nation must care for its own citizens first.  Our pledge to America's workers has secured commitments to train more than 12 millions Americans for the jobs of tomorrow.  You know who's working very hard on that? You probably never heard of her.  Ivanka Trump.  She's working very hard.  She gave up a lot.  She had a very easy life, but she loves doing it.  She's got over, I think, now 12 million people.  They're teaching them the great companies of our country, they're teaching people how to do it, and it's an incredible thing to watch.  To give former prisoners a second chance at life, we passed groundbreaking criminal justice reform that nobody could've passed except us.  President Obama tried, a lot of them tried, they couldn't get it passed.  I got it passed with a lot of help from liberals and conservatives, and a lot of help.  And, the biggest beneficiary is the African-American community.  Biggest beneficiary.  And, something which a lot of people don't talk about, but we doubled the child tax credit.  Doubled it.  Our tax plan also created nearly 9,000 opportunity zones, hottest thing going, providing massive new incentives for investment in job creation in distressed communities.  Left together, I put out a six minute video detailing everything I found unacceptable about liberalism and the Democrat Party.  Take your time.  Take your time.  Walk away.  Doctor? Doctor in the house, please? Okay.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, doctor.  Thank you.  Don't forget, it's a hundred degrees in here.  That person's been standing there for almost a day if you think about it.  A lot of you, so I appreciate it.  And you know what? They'll come back.  They'll get a little something and they'll come right back because there's never been anything like this.  There's never been anything, right? Never been.  Thank you.  Incredible.  We established more than 300 opportunity zones in Ohio alone, and these are really working out incredibly well.  Nationwide, nearly eight million African-Americans live in opportunity zones, but every democrat voted against them.  Every single democrat, because they vote as a block.  It's the only thing they do good.  They stick together.  Their policies, no good.  They're lousy politicians, but they stick together like glue.  It's the only thing they have.  That's the only thing they have going.  Democrats deliver poverty for their constituents and privilege for themselves.  Republicans deliver jobs, safety and opportunity for all Americans.  We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders, and we'll start off with a man who had a very, very tough race for governor.  A lot of people choke.  They choke like dogs.  They can't breathe, aw.  They can't breathe.  This guy was running against a so-called star … So, that's two protestors, and tomorrow night the headline will be, Protesters, Protesters.  You know what happened to the second one? He looked at the guy in front of him and he said, "Ah, I'm out of here.  Bye. " That's the way it works, that's the way it works, I guess.  Too bad.  But, a man who really has done a fantastic job, he campaigned so hard, and this was a star right from the fields of the great Pocahontas whose now lying and cheating her way to the presidency, if possible.  She's trying to win, remember? She defrauded people with her credentials.  She said she was Indian, and I said that I have more Indian blood than she does, and I have none.  I'm sorry.  We drove her crazy.  And, we drove her crazy.  That's a good thing, not a bad thing.  She went out and she had a blood test done, and it came out 1,024th.  He said, " Somewhere back there, hundreds of years ago, there may have been an Indian.  Or it may have been a statistical error because it was so small. " Which, it was.  Anyway, but the guy was from her group.  You wouldn't be very happy right now, and we have a man that campaigned so hard, relentless.  I came in, we did a rally where we had people like this.  It was packed the day before the election and Mike DeWine won that election.  -and Mike Dewine won that election and he won it easily.  Mike Dewine.  We have a man who's running for governor of Kentucky again.  And he's done an incredible job.  And did you ever hear, sometimes you could do such a good job that not everybody appreciates it? But they had a lot of problems with pensions and a lot of tremendous problems that a normal governor would never have been able to correct.  But when you correct it, you make yourself a little bit less popular.  But he had no choice and they had no choice.  It's a great, great state and he has turned out to be a great, great governor.  Matt Bevin.  He's running in November, and because I like him so much, Matt get a nice big arena ready, we're going to do a rally for you.  And a man who's fantastic son is here tonight who I just met, incredible.  When I ran with him, he was down.  I said, "Rob Portman's down," and then about four weeks later he was up by like 24 points.  I said, "What the Hell did you do?" And you know what he did? He does a great job.  That's what he did.  Senator Rob Portman.  Great guy.  And we have a few guys that, these are warriors.  A couple of them you saw the other day, they were questioning Bob Mueller.  That was a beauty.  He was sharp, wasn't he?He was sharp as a tack and Steve Chabot and Brad Wenstrup, and Warren Davidson and Andy Barr and a man named Greg Pence who happens to be a brother of somebody I know very well.  They have been with us through thick and thin, and it has been mostly really good times because what we've done, no other administration in the first two and a half years in history has done.  Thank you fellas.  Great job.  A couple of them gave a grilling.  They gave a grilling.  All they had to do is mention the facts and it was over.  And also the auditor of the great state of Ohio, a man whose job I made much easier because you have money pouring in.  You have companies pouring in.  Keith Faber.  How is it Keith? The numbers are good, Keith.  Numbers are good, right? Yeah.  The numbers are good.  Ohio Senate President, Larry Obhof.  Larry, thank you.  Great job.  Nice tie.  I like Larry's tie.  And you have a couple of people that are very, very powerful.  I hear that office and I shudder, Ohio Supreme Court justices, Sharon Kennedy and Judy French.  Thank you.  Please don't recuse yourself because I gave you a nice welcome, should I ever be before you.  I love judges.  When they see you for about two seconds and then you say, oh, that judge should be fair.  And then they say, "I'd like to recuse myself because 29 years ago I met Donald Trump. " I'd never have been in… We've been doing very well in the courts, by the way.  Have you seen? We've been winning a lot of cases, a lot of cases.  We really have.   179.  Percentage wise, it's the second most.  We will never be number one.  Sadly we'll never be number one.  So percentage wise, nobody's ever seen anything like it.  And that's because President Obama basically was not able for about three years to get his people in, which is a shame.  And I came in, I had 148 openings.  You're supposed to have none.  I said, "How many do we have?" 148.  And I said, "You got to be kidding. " And we've all done a good job together.  It's been amazing, with Mitch and you and everybody.  It's been amazing.  So we're going to be up to, within two months, 179 federal judges.  That's in two and a half years.  And what else? Two great Supreme Court judges.  Great ones.  There's only one person.  I think most of you must know this.  Who percentage wise has done better than me with judges? Tell me.  I'll give you a hint? He appointed 100% of the federal judges and 100% of the United States Supreme Court.  George Washington.  That's one record we're not going to beat.  But I appointed many more than him, so let's take it that way.  Many anymore.  I also want to introduce a friend of mine who's done an incredible job.  She's really something, she has been incredible as a leader of the GOP.  She's the chair and she's my friend Jane Timken.  And aman Bob Paduchik.  You know Bob Paduchik? So Bob, I had to pick campaign manager in Ohio and I kept hearing from the media, "You must win the state of Ohio. " I heard this over and over for like a year and a half.  "You must win Ohio.  You must win. " So I had to pick a campaign manager and I picked a man named Bob Paduchik.  And no matter what happened, no matter how badly we were doing, he said, "Sir, you're going to win Ohio easily. " I said, "But Bob, we just lost the head of the GOP in Ohio.  He left because you have a certain governor that asked him to leave. " Great support from the governor, a different governor than Mike by the way, slightly.  So he had to get out.  So I said, "We just lost. " And Bob said, "Don't worry about it, sir.  You're going to win.  In fact, I think you just went up. " Then we lost a couple of other people.  I'd call him.  I say, "Bob, I'm worried about Ohio.  Very worried. " He said, "Don't worry about it, sir.  I think he just went up. " He kept saying, "You just went up. " I said to somebody, "I don't know much about this guy, but boy, he's the most optimistic person I've ever met. " True.  He said, "Don't worry. " We ended up winning Ohio by close to nine points, which is unheard of.  He was right.  Bob Paduchik.  Bob.  And also here tonight, I don't know, did he do a good job? My son, Donald Jr.  and Kimberly.  I hope he did a good job.  Good, I heard you did.  I heard you did a great job.  He's been a great help.  They both have.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Kimberly.  Thank you very much.  Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker pro jobs, pro family pro growth and 100% pro American.  We've eliminated a record number of job killing regulations, giving the average American household $3,000 more to spend every single year.  The previous administration tried to shut down American energy and close up, totally, close it up.  American clean, beautiful coal.  That's what they did.  That didn't work out too well, but you had a suffer.  It didn't work out well, but get a suffer for a long time until I came along.  You're not suffering any longer.  The previous administration, they liked to windmills.  If a windmill is within two miles of your house, your house is practically worthless.  They make noise, they're intermittent.  They kill your birds.  They break down all the time.  You have to replace them every 10 years because they wear out, and they cost a fortune and they need subsidy.  Other than that, they're quite good.  You don't want one of those windmills within vision.  You hear them, they're noisy.  They've got a lot of problems.  No, we're going to say with the great energy that's powering our businesses, that's creating so many jobs.  And solar, you know what? We'll live with solar, but solar is peanuts by comparison to what you need.  But we're going to stay the way we have it.  We've ended the war on American energy and we're putting our coal miners back to work and our steelworkers back to work, and our auto companies back to work.  We've learned over the last three years the incredible gold that were sitting on top of in this country.  We're very lucky.  We're now the largest energy producer in the entire world, bigger than Soviet Union, formerly.  Remember the Soviet Union when it was all together.  The Soviet Union, when it was all together before they decided we got to call ourselves Russia.  When it was all together, they wanted to be, that was always their dream to be the biggest in the world.  Then it became Russia and you know what? They've done a good job with energy and so has Saudi Arabia done a good job with energy.  But we're now bigger than Russia.  We are now bigger than Saudi Arabia by far.  I withdraw our country from the job killing and very expensive Paris Climate Accord.  Last year coal export were up 92% compared to 2016.  92%, do you believe that? You're shipping it all over the world.  To Vietnam.  I was in Vietnam and they said, "We get coal from Ohio.  We get coal from West Virginia.  It's the finest coal in the world. " We've created more than 110,000 new mining jobs, and thanks to states like Ohio the United States is now the number one producer of oil, the number one producer of natural gas, the number one everything having to do with energy.  Number one.  Anywhere in the world.  We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that led other countries to pillage our jobs, plunder our factories, and devastate Ohio communities and communities in every state.  The era of economic surrender is over, and when you look at what they've done to your jobs over a period of time, NAFTA was one of the worst deals ever made and probably the worst deal.  You still have empty buildings, empty factories, but now they're getting filled up pretty fast or being knocked down for brand new ones.  We have hundreds of new companies pouring into the United States.  My first week in office, I withdrew the United States from one of the last administration's worst sellouts.  It would have destroyed our automobile industry.  It would have destroyed manufacturing in this country, and maybe that's what President Obama meant when he said, you can't produce manufacturing jobs anymore in the United States, because he would've signed Trans Pacific Partnership and he would've been right.  I killed it.  And by the way, TPP, Trans Pacific Partnership would have destroyed the automobile industry in this country already.  Already the shipped down 30% of your jobs to Mexico.  Under the new USMCA.  That's Mexico and Canada.  We've got to get them to vote on that because that's an incredible deal.  But under the new… It's going to be very hard for companies to leave you, to fire you, to go down to make their product, whatever it may be, to send it back into the United States with no tax.  All we end up with this unemployment and taxes and empty buildings.  So they got to vote, on the USMCA.  Before I took office, foreign countries ripped us off, robbed us blind, and pushed us around, but America is not being pushed around anymore.  Do you realize that? I got that from working in Ohio for two summers.  We've taken the toughest ever action to stand up to China's trade abuse, and I just announced another 10% tariff on $300 billion worth of Chinese products that come into our country.  And that's on top of the 25% that we take off $250 billion coming in from China, and don't let them tell you, the fact is China devalues their currency.  They pour money into their system, they pour it in, and because they do that, you're not paying for those tariffs.  China's paying for those tariffs.  For the last 20 years, China's taken hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars out of our country, and now we're stopping the theft of American jobs.  We're stopping the theft of so many other things happening, including intellectual property.  They steal our intellectual property.  I think they want to try and make a deal with us, but I'm not sure, because the word is, I feel they want to wait until they get… They're praying.  They're praying.  They would like to see a new president in a year and a half so they could continue to rip off the United States like they've been doing for the last 25 years.  Would love to see a guy like sleepy Joe Biden who has no clue what the hell he's doing.  They say to sleepy Joe.  Sir, "Just sign right there. " "Oh, okay.  I'll sign. " We'll be losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year to China.  It has to stop but they understand that.  President Xi is good man.  He's a friend of mine.  He understands it.  And until such time as there is a deal, we will be taxing the hell out of China.  That's all there.   make your product in America.  Come on back to the United States.  Come on back to Ohio.  There's no tariff.  There's no tariff.  Thanks to steel tariffs, hundreds of thousands of tons, think of this, were dumped on our shores, and steel is like something else.  It's that quality.  They were dumping garbage, they call it sand steel, they call it dirt steel. .  It was mixed up.  It was bad stuff and we didn't want to use that for our jet fighters and for our beams that hold up building.  But they were dumping tremendous quantities of steel, and what was happening is United States steel and all of our companies were going virtually out of business and I stopped it.  I put on a 25% tariff, billions of dollars is now pouring into our treasury and our steel companies and our steel workers are coming back.  Right here in Ohio.  Nucor a great steel company, and a steel company that's doing great again, Nucor, has announced an $85 million upgrade in Marion.  Charter Steel announced plans to build a new $150 million steel mill in Cuyahoga Heights, and Cleveland Cliffs announced a new $700 million plant in a very good place that I like a lot, Toledo.  Toledo, Ohio.  This was unthinkable because four years ago, steel plans were closing.  They weren't expanding or they weren't building.  We're building new plants in Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, all over.  Not Just Ohio.  On issue after issue, Democrats have forgotten who it is that they're supposed to represent.  They forgot.  I wonder why they forgot.  The job of elected officials is to represent American citizens, the radical Democrats even support deadly sanctuary cities which release dangerous criminals onto our streets.  Sanctuary cities.  Many of the places that have sanctuary cities and many of the people that live there, they don't want them.  They don't want them.  They're dangerous and not good.  Here are just a few examples.  In San Francisco, an illegal alien was arrested no fewer than 10 times in the span of less than one year for numerous counts of burglary and theft.  Yet each time San Francisco defied federal authorities and set him free and bad things happened when they set him free.  A sanctuary jurisdiction in California recently released a criminal alien from jail.  The very next month, the same individual was arrested for rape and then beyond anything you would even believe, a horrible thing happened.  But yet again, he was released back into your community.  After sanctuary city in New Jersey released an alien charged with domestic violence, he was arrested in Missouri for the murders of three people.  In the bizarre worldview of the third and hard left, they have no problem destroying the lives of innocent Americans for a single politically incorrect thought.  But they want to virtually, and you know this, they want virtual immunity for illegal aliens who have committed horrible crimes and murder.  Horrible crimes and murder.  Republicans believe our cities should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens.  And yes just won a big lawsuit last week.  In fact, on of my lawyers for winning that lawsuit is here tonight.  I gave him a little reprieve.  We need a lot of lawyers in the White House.  We get sued so much, so unfairly, but we're winning those lawsuits left and right, but one of them is here.  He said, "I'd love to go to a rally. " I said, " I'm going to a place called Cincinnati, Ohio.  You deserve it. " We just won the lawsuit on the wall.  Where's Pat? We just won the lawsuit on the wall.  You hear that? We're building the wall faster and better than ever.  It's time for Democrats to end sanctuary cities and catch and release.  You know what you do? You catch them and then you release them and you say, "Would you please report back in four years from now. " But only 2% come back.  You know why? Because they're not the smartest.  They are not the smartest.  They're the ones we don't want to have come back.  Only 2% show up.  Catch and release, we could end it immediately if the Democrats caved.  So what we're doing is something else.  We're keeping them out altogether.  We're replacing random migraines and we're replacing the lottery system.  How about the lottery system? How about lotteries? This was chuck Schumer.  You put the name in a basket.  The country puts the name in a basket and you picked people out of the lottery.  Well, let's see.  This one's a murderer.  This one robbed four banks.  This one, I better not say.  This one, another murder.  Ladies and gentlemen, another murderer.  Think of this.  Do you think they're going to put great citizens… they have great citizens, they have great people like we have great people.  Do you think those people are going into a lottery? No.  And then we get these people coming in and we hold it against the country.  The country isn't based on that, the country, you just take a look, look at the people they put into these lotteries.  It's a disgrace.  And how we've done this for so many years folks, how we've done this.  It's an immigration system that's totally broken and we're going to win the House, we're going to win the Senate, we're going to win the presidency and we're going to do a merit based immigration system.  Merit based.  Merit based immigration.  And we need that because we have companies coming in from all over the world and we need good workers.  We need good people.  We're down to 3. 5% unemployment.  We need people, but we want people to come in based on merit, not based on some lottery put in by a governor.  Democrats have never been farther outside the mainstream.  Liberal politicians want to eliminate private- Dream.  Liberal politicians want to eliminate private healthcare and force everyone onto the government plan.  Remember the lies from the previous administration.  If you like your plan, you can keep your plan.  If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor.  28 time, one lie after another.  28 times it was said and it turned out to be a total lie.  My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and doctor that is best for you.  We're offering right now plans up to 60% cheaper than Obamacare and we will always protect patients with pre existing conditions.  Always.  Always.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion.  And then you'll have like a governor of Virginia, it's not only late term abortion, it's killing the baby after the baby is born.  How about that? Think of that.  Think of that.  That's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, and they're the party, frankly, of socialism.  The Republican Party is the party of freedom.  We're the party of the American worker, the American family.  We're the party of the American dream.  I'm fighting for you each and every day.  I had a great life.  I used to get great publicity.  Nobody got better… I had such a great life.  It was so easy.  My great wife, the first lady, Melania, she said, "You know, you've always been a hard worker.  You love to work, but your life was a lot easier in the old days. " But I love it and you know why I love it? Because we're accomplishing so much.  Nobody ever thought it would be possible to do the things we're doing.  Even a thing like Right to Try, right? Right to Try.  They've been trying to get that for years and years and years.  That's people that are really sick, terminally ill.  They couldn't get medicine.  We have the greatest doctors, the greatest clinics, the greatest technicians in the world.  They couldn't get anything.  They'd traveled to Asia if they had money.  They traveled to Europe.  They'd travel all over the world hoping for a cure.  If they had no money they'd just go home.  They'd die.  They had no hope.  For 44 years, they've been trying to get Right to Try.  We are so advanced in medicine.  We have a lot of things that probably work or possibly work, but we weren't allowed legally to give that to these people that were so sick.  You know why? Because they didn't want this drug if it didn't work to hurt the people, but the people were terminally ill.  So I got it approved and it wasn't easy.  It was complicated.  The insurance companies didn't want to do it.  The government didn't want to do it.  The doctors didn't want to do it.  Tremendous liability.  But our country didn't want to do it.  They said, "Well, if it doesn't work, we're going to get sued. " I say, "So they'll sign an agreement, very strong, one page, taking all liability away from the United States, from the drug companies, from the doctors, all liability.  They're terminally ill.  Let's try it. " And you know what? It's been a miracle.  So many people have done so well.  It's great.  We got it done.  When I set about the agreement, they had these great lawyers and they said, "Gee, that's a good idea. " They'd been working in this few years.  They said, "That's a good idea. " I said, "Yeah, it's a good idea.  How about getting you to me like in about two hours?" Right to Try.  It's a great thing.  But we have so many things like that.  I have lists that you wouldn't even believe.  I have lists that go on for pages of things we've done.  We've launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs, including a plan to allow companies to import lower cost drugs from other countries.  It's a very unfair system.  Our country pays the highest prices in the world.  Last year was the first time in 51 years that drug pricing for prescription drugs actually came down.  Now we're going to bring it down by a lot.  We're going to bring it down a lot.  And now… So other countries… Here's an example, Canada pays half the price for a lot of drugs that we do.  So we have a great governor in the state of Florida, Ron DeSantis, calls me up.  Doing a great job.  Ron DeSantis.  He was at three and he went to 70.  that's a pretty good increase, right? Ron DeSantis, a great governor.  And he comes to me, he goes, "You know, if you buy the drugs, if we buy the drugs, because this is so botched up, we have a middleman.  It's not a good situation. " He said, "If I could go and buy the drugs from Canada, I could save 50%. " I said, "Do it.  Do it.  And if you can buy them from Europe, because their system…" Like, remember I used to scream when I was winning states and not getting the delegates that I was entitled to and I'd say the system is rigged? Well, the drug system is rigged.  It's rigged.  So if we can buy the same drug made by the same pharmaceutical company from Europe or from Canada or from other places at a big deep discount, we're doing it and we're giving them the right to do it.  Just happened today.  And we're doing one other thing that, believe it or not is even bigger, but you'll be seeing that over the next two weeks.  With the help of your great Senator, Rob Portman, we've taken bold action to confront the opioid epidemic and in Ohio, drug overdose deaths went down 22% last year, 22%.  No, but think of that.  Opioid, big problem, big problem.  Deaths went down.  Opioid deaths, 22%.  Nobody writes that.  Nobody talks about that.  They don't want to talk about that.  Good job, Rob.  Good job.  Good job, Mike.  We passed VA Choice and VA Accountability on behalf of our great veterans.  They been trying to pass VA Choice for four decades.  They couldn't get it done.  We got it done.  We got it done.  This is where a veteran would stand online for three, four, five, six days, for three weeks, for five weeks.  Sometimes they're okay.  By the time they see a doctor, they're terminally ill.  And I said, "You know, I have a great idea. " Because I not been doing that this long.  You know, we've been working with this for… I've been thinking about it a lot.  This was during the campaign.  What a campaign that was, right? Was that a campaign or what? And I came back to my people.  I had experts and I said, "I have a great idea.  These lines for the veterans are too long.  It takes them three, four weeks sometimes to see a doctor.  I have a great idea.  Let's let them go outside.  Go to a private doctor.  We'll pay the bill.  They'll be fixed up all perfect and they can do it immediately.  We'll pay the bill. " And I thought… I said, "Man, am I smart? I am the smartest guy to think of that. " So I went before this panel of experts that were with me working on things and I said, "How do you like that idea?" And they said, "Sir, we've known about it for about 40 years, but we've never been…" I said, "Really? You've known about it that long?" But here's the thing.  We got it done.  Nobody else could get it done.  Nobody else.  And Accountability.  You couldn't fire anybody.  If they were treating our vets badly, you couldn't fire them for anything.  People could steal.  They could be sadistic to our vets.  By the way, they wouldn't have done that in primetime to our vets.  I can tell you that.  They can be whatever they want.  You couldn't fire them.  And it was because of unions and it was because of other things.  Civil Service.  Very tough.  You couldn't fire anybody for almost anything.  We had cases where people got… They got caught stealing a lot of money and you couldn't fire them.  We got VA Accountability.  Now we say, "Jim, get the hell out of here.  You're fired. " We're rebuilding our military.  And after years of budget cuts and layoffs, the army tank plant in… Do you Lima? You call it Lima, right? See? You know, most people call it Lima, but I know Lima.  But you know why? Because I came here and they said, "We're closing this plant. " I said, "What kind of a plant is it?" Remember when I was here? In Lima.  And I used to say, "You mean Lima?" They said, "No, sir.  It's Lima. " That's why… Because, but Leah, hey look, I'll be honest with you because they have it wrong with the teleprompter, okay? And I would have been in big trouble.  But the good news is I don't use the teleprompter too much.  If I did, you would've been out of here a long time ago because it gets very boring when you do the teleprompter deal.  But in Lima, and I said, "What kind of a plant?" And I said, "Let's go see it. " During the campaign I went to see it and they make the incredible, the best army tank in the world and I couldn't believe the complexity, the genius.  I said, "Wait a minute.  You close this, you'll never be able to open it again.  You can't open this.  This isn't like a normal situation that you can open four walls and a roof.  This is complicated.  This is genius and you'll never replace these men and women that work here. " I said… And I didn't know anything at the time other than I said, "You're not closing it. " They took it off to list.  They kept it open and now we're making army tanks around the clock.  We're investing in the future of human space flight.  Americans won the race to the moon and we will now win the race to Mars.  It's going to be amazing.  And you know, one thing I have to say also, and we're also winning the race to great, great strategic defense and offense, not just Mars.  And Mike Pence is doing a great job on that.  Great job.  To protect America's security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible Iran nuclear deal, a horrible, stupid deal.  We gave Iran $150 billion.  We gave Iran $ 1. 8 billion in cash.  Plane loads of cash.  I wonder what they saw when those planes landed.  I wonder what happened to the cash? Can you believe it? One $1. 8 billion we gave them in cash.  And remember what I said, Iran is a much different country than two and a half years ago.  When I took over, Iran was all over.  They had 14 to 18 different sites of confliction.  They were all over.  And now they just want to… They want a negotiated deal so badly.  Iran.  Iran.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  And just a few months ago, we recognized the Golan Heights.  You know that.  That's another one.  Big one for the security of Israel.  Also recognized the legitimate government of Venezuelan and we condemn any of the socialist brutality taking place.  Let's see what happens there.  Let's see what happens.  Tonight we renew our resolves that America will never be a socialist country.  Never, ever, ever will it be a socialist country.  No matter what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of our great, our beautiful, our wonderful American dream.  We're not going to let our country ever go down the route of socialism.  You must never forget that the 2020 election is about one thing.  It's about you.  I say it again.  I say it all the time.  Never happened before.  There's never been a movement like this.  They've had movements.  They never went… They won a state.  They did well in the state.  We won 32 states.  There's never been anything like it.  There's never been anything like it.  But this movement is about your family and your future, and it's about the life and the fate of your country.  We begin our… Hey, look, this is a good place.  Is this a great thing to do? We begin our campaign and we're going to do great, Bob.  Right, Bob? Bob, if we don't do great, you're fired, Bob.  You're fired.  But think of it, our Ohio campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for our nation's future.  And again, remember this, Ohio is doing better today than it's ever, ever, ever done before.  It's the best it's ever done.  What's going to do… A guy like a sleepy Joe Biden is going to come in and say, "But I could do better.  I could do better. " He wants to go back to sleep.  Together we will continue unleashing the power of American enterprise so every American can reach their fullest and highest potential, tremendous potential.  Our country has such tremendous potential.  You know, we've had… The last week, we've had the highest stock market in the history of our country.  That means 401ks.  That means job.  But there's tremendous potential to go up.  We have tremendous potential to go up.  With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration.  We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those four beautiful words "Made in the USA" or "Made in America".  Either one.  You can use either one.  Made in America, made in the US.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine and I see what they're doing.  I see it.  They show me the things we're doing in our country today.  There's never been anything like it.  We will be ending the AIDS epidemic shortly in America and curing childhood cancer very shortly.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  Just remember with the Democrats, there is no second amendment.  You can forget about keep and bear arms.  You can forget it.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America.  We will never ever stop fighting.  We support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States.  We stand with our incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and we believe in the sanctity of life.  And we believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always be proud, patriotic Americans.  And we will always live by the words of our national motto, "In God We trust. " Two days ago, I spoke at the 400th anniversary of the first representative legislature assembly at Jamestown, Virginia.  It was beautiful.  It was incredible.  I was… I must tell you, I was reminded of so many great things in our country.  We have been blessed with such a remarkable and priceless heritage.  We are the greatest republic on the face of the earth and we are going to keep it that way.  Every day of my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us.  The future belongs to all of you.  The future belongs to the greatest movement in the history of our country.  And with your help and your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one people in one family saluting one great American flag.  We all share the same home.  We all share the same heart.  And we all share the same love of Almighty God.  Together, with the great and proud people of Ohio, we are making America wealthy again.  We are making America strong again.  We are making America safe again.  We are making America great again and with your vote in 2020 we will keep America great.  Thank you, Ohio.  Thank you. 



Hello Colorado.  We love Colorado, most beautiful place And I'm thrilled to be back in Colorado Springs.  I've spent a lot of time here over the years.  Beautiful place, beneath the majestic peaks, that's true, of the Rocky Mountains with thousands of terrific, hardworking, great American patriots.  With your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical Democrats and we are going to win Colorado in a landslide.  And you're going to help us get Cory Gardner across that line because he's been with us 100%.  there was no waiver.  He's been with us.  There was no waiver with Corey.  We appreciate it.  Thank you Corey.  Thank you.  This month we mark a very special anniversary.  75 years ago this week our brave United States Marines landed on the shores of Iwo Jima and began one of the bloodiest battles of the second world war.  It was a rough one.  Tonight it's our great privilege to be joined by three of the heroes of the Battle of Iwo Jima, James Blaine, Donald Whipple and John Thurman.  Great, great patriots, very brave people.  Just passed away.  Sadly he passed away just a few days ago.  He was going to be here.  Passed away a few days ago, but he was great.  I have a beautiful picture of him right outside and we're going to honor him and his family.  Great, great gentlemen.  So we were going to have four.  We have three and we want to thank you for being here.  Thank you all.  Thank you.  Because America is truly a land of heroes, on behalf of the grateful nation I would like to recognize the many veterans of the Vietnam War and the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars who are here this evening, and a lot of them.  Great people, great people.  This is a truly incredible time for America.  We have the best economy in our history, the most prosperity of any country.  We are doing better than any country in the world, that is not even close.  And we've rebuilt our military over the last three years.  Don't tell anybody, but we spent two and a half trillion dollars.  But when it comes to our military and our safety and our security, we don't worry about budgets, right? We don't worry about budgets.  We had to rebuild it.  It was depleted.  It was in bad shape.  It was old, it was tired.  We have the best people in the world, but they had old equipment.  Now we have brand new jets.  We have brand new missiles and rockets.  We have everything all made in the USA.  In my State of the Union Address, I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback.  That's what we're doing.  Our country is stronger today than ever before.  After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and scams and partisan Democrat crusades, the radical left's attempt to poison our democracy and overturn this last election have totally failed.  They have been a complete flop and we today have the highest poll numbers we've ever had today, just came out.  And I don't know if anybody watched last night's debate, it got very big ratings and you know what? Mini Mike didn't do well last night.  I was going to send him a note saying it's not easy doing what I do, is it? It's not easy, Mike.  Not easy for any of them.  Now, Mike didn't do too well.  He went way down.  It's all right.  Mini mike.  How about Klobuchar, did you see her? She choked.  She choked.  She couldn't breathe.  Alfred E.  Neuman looked at her and said something slightly derogatory and she said, "Are you accusing me of being dumb?" Who would make a statement like that? Because that's really what he was doing, but he doesn't want to say that.  No, how about that? "Are you saying I'm dumb?" That was the end of her campaign in my book.  You don't say that.  Even if it's true, you don't say that.  They had a crazy person on today on one of the Fox shows.  I tell you, Fox doesn't treat us the way they used to.  But we have the great Sean Hannity, we do, and we have Laura and Tucker.  And we have in the morning Fox and Friends, Steve and Ainsley, and Brian's gotten much better, he's moving up.  And we have the great Lou Dobbs.  Lou Dobbs says he's the greatest president ever.  The great Lou Dobbs.  He says, Lou Dobbs a year and a half, two years ago he said, "He's the greatest since Reagan. " Then he said about six months ago, "He's better than Reagan. " And then he said a few nights ago, "He's the greatest we've ever had. " I said, "Does that include Lincoln and George Washington?" He said, "That includes them all. " That's Lou Dobbs.  The great Lou Dobbs.  And you've got Hegseth and you've got Jesse Waters.  How about Jesse? And Judge Jeanine and even Greg Gutfeld.  Greg hated us, right? But now he says, "Look, whether I like him or not, he gets it done.  It's all about getting it done. " We're getting it done.  Nobody's ever done what we've done.  No, but Fox says, and I don't know, it's different.  It was different.  In the old days, it was better for us.  It was better for us.  But it's okay, we'll win anyway.  No, but they had this woman on.  Neil Cavuto, doesn't treat us good.  Neil Cavuto, he's not too good.  She said, "I don't like him. " Nobody likes him.  Right now… So you had, remember Lest in The Readies? You remember who was Lest in The Readies? He got fired, right? You remember, right? Remember? He's gone and now Neil's taking his place.  Neil is actually a nice guy, but he doesn't like Trump too much.  And he put this woman on today and she said, "Donald Trump didn't do well in the debates and he won," because she was referring to Mike Bloomberg, sometimes referred to as Mini Mike.  And I said, "Wait a minute, I won every debate. " It's true.  And we sent them polls, poll after poll after poll.  Not only won them, but won by a lot.  I won every debate.  I'm just saying every poll, they do those polls right after, three, four, 500,000 people, Time Magazine.  I said, "Nobody's allowed to do that.  You can't do that. " We're at enough of a disadvantage with the fake news.  They make up 90% of the story.  So where is Dan Scavino? Where is Scavino? Does anyone know who Dan Scavino is? Dan, bring me those pages up here.  Bring those pages up.  See if you can get them.  Go get them.  It's such fake news.  It's so disgusting.  You know what? They'd do better if they told the truth.  Do you agree? They'd do better.  Oh, someday in 10, 14, 18, 22 years when I'm gone, when we leave office in 26 years or so, they're going to miss us.  I told the story that a month before I ran, 2016 I was thinking about it.  I said to my wife, who has become a great First Lady.  People love here.  They said it's one of the greatest fields ever assembled.  And I said, "What the hell should I run for if they are so great?" But I remember holding up the New York Times and it was like a leaflet that you give a certain, a supermarket, right? It's like, the thing was blowing in the wind.  It was dead and now it's successful again.  But when we leave, it's all of us.  We leave together.  We're unified.  This is the most unified the Republican party has ever been.  And when we leave, the New York Times… Thank you.  The great Dan Scavino, the most powerful man in politics.  Hey Dan.  So Zuckerberg left.  Who is number one in the world on Facebook? And I'm saying this in front of the fake news because if I'm wrong, they're going to report me, right? Who is number one in the world on Facebook? He walked in, but that's us.  He walked in for… We had dinner recently just because I want them to pay taxes.  I want to find out what's going on.  But he walked in, he's smart, and he said, "I just want to congratulate you. " Small dinner, a few people.  He said, "You're number one in the world in Facebook. " I said, "That's nice. " I said, "Who's number two?" He said, "Prime minister Modi of India. " I said, "Wait a minute, wait a minute.  He's got 1. 5 billion people and we have 350 so he should be number one. " But we're never going to give up that position of number one in the world for our country, for Facebook, for Twitter, for anything, and they still haven't figured it out.  They have not figured it out.  But look at all that press.  Look at all that press.  Did this ever happen before? And then you have Brad Pitt.  I was never a big fan of his.  He got upset.  A little wise guy statement.  A little wise guy.  He's a little wise guy.  Anyway, but we're doing what? Over here, I just showed this real quick.  Right? So this horrible journalist, she's a real, she's a Trump hater.  You know what she's worth? Zero ratings.  Nobody watches her, but she said… she was trying to… Look, Bloomberg made a fool out of himself last night.  He choked.  He's another one who's going, " Oh I can't breathe.  I can't breathe.  Don't ask me the question, please. " I look at my wife, I said, "Let's send him a little note.  It's not so easy up there to do what I did, right?" Not so easy.  But this woman who is a third rate, fourth rate, she's been with everybody.  Every year she's with a different group, but I won't use her name because it'll make her too famous.  It actually plays to their advantage.  But she's third rate and she's on the lowest rated show at Fox, Neil Cavuto.  That's why.  So she said, "Donald Trump didn't get good ratings.  He didn't do well in the polls. " She said, "He didn't do well on the debates. " She said that we were defeated in the debates.  Well I defeated crooked Hillary every time and by a lot.  Yeah, she's crooked as a $3 bill.  I was going, "Whatever happened to the 33,000 emails? Whatever happened?" 33,000, she deleted them and her acid washed them and she didn't get in trouble.  Can you imagine if a Republican did that? They would want to bring back the death penalty, right? Two standards.  But I think things are happening.  I said drain the swamp, I just never knew how deep it was.  We have more garbage in the swamp than you would ever believe.  And this is part of the swamp.  So what happens? She said, "Donald Trump didn't do well in the debates. " Now remember my answer, Rosie O'Donnell, right? First question I've ever, and we took down the house.  Then the second, Brett Barry asked me, I had to raise the hand.  I'm the only one, I guess that raised the hand.  Right? And the place went crazy because I was the only one telling the truth.  Okay? Turns out I was the only one telling… And the people get it.  But she said I didn't do well on the bench.  I said, "Really? I won every single debate. " We had 15 to 14 debates, then we had the presidential debates with crooked Hillary against myself.  So here's one.  I don't want to… I'm a little guilty because these are all my friends, right? A lot of them are my friends now.  They weren't my friends then, they were my mortal enemy.  It's hard to be friends when you're competing against somebody.  You're right about that.  So here's Donald Trump, 67.  The next one was 13%.  the next one was 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 2%, 2%, 1%, 1%, and 0.  All right, that's Time Magazine.  All right, that's Time.  They don't like me.  I don't like them either, by the way.  Although actually I do like the new owner.  This year I got beaten out by Gretta.  You know Gretta? Last year I got beaten out… I mean, I've won it.  But when the world evolves around all of us, we should be chosen.  There's nothing wrong with it, right? I mean, we've won it, but we should win it every single year, let's face it.  And now they call it person of the year.  They don't go out man of the year.  And I know the women out there are saying, "Isn't that nice?" But a lot of the women out there don't like it.  They don't like it.  We could have a woman of the year and a man of the year.  I like that.  Okay, here's Drudge Report.  Drudge is starting to treat me good again.  He started to like me again.  I like him.  Look, Trump and Ted Cruz, I can say he came in second.  He was a great debater.  And Marco came in third and a guy who I don't like much and they don't like him much in Ohio either, Kasich.  Kasich.  He was way down.  Way down.  Okay, look who won? Trump.  Here's another one.  Look again, a different one, Time Magazine.  Trump, 33%.  Ben Carson, good man, he was down.  Marco, Jed, Ted.  Carly Fiorina, a name I haven't heard in a long time.  What happened to Carly? And ran, good poll.  Here's the story.  Look, but way up.  Way up.  Look at this.  Here's another one.  Look at this.  Trump 46%.  I didn't make this up.  Here's another one.  This is a different debate.  I don't know.  They're all different.  I won every one of them.  Look, Trump, I just took these at random, 46%.  second, 5%, 3%, 5%, 3%, 9%, 5%, 11%.  Trump, 46%.  Here's another one, CNBC.  Well, the market's been up.  They've actually been not so bad and Joe Kiernan is a good guy.  He is a good guy.  Some of the rest, I don't care for it too much.  Becky's like, she plays it a little bit down in the middle, right? Which is okay.  Trump, almost 50%.  Then they have all the rest of them.  14, 4, 3, 2, 2. 8, 2. 54, 1. 9, I'm not going to give you the names.  I won't tell you that I got 48. 8 and Jeb Bush got 1. 1.  The rest I'm not going to talk about, but he hasn't been exactly a great supporter, sort of a never Trumper I guess.  So Jeb, 1. 9, 1. 1, and Trump 48.  That's another one.  Oh, here's a nice one.  Here's a nice one.  Look at this.  Look at this.  Trump 70%, next one is 18%, next one is 7, 4, 3, 3, 3, 2, 1, 1, 1.  Trump didn't do well in the debate.  See, they're fake news.  Here's another one, Trump Kicked Ass.  Trump Kicked Ass.  Trump 48, number two was six.  Here's another one.  Trump 75. 6, crooked Hillary was 24%.  This was against crooked Hillary.  So look at that.  Trump was 74. 6, crooked Hillary Clinton was 24. 1.  Trump was 80%, crooked Hillary was 18%.  And I've got this woman.  You know who it is, right? Nobody knows the name.  I'm not going to mention it.  But everybody knows Neil Cavuto.  She has no credibility and neither do you, Neil Cavuto.  Here's another one.  Crooked Hillary, and by the way, one is a Fox poll, one is Breitbart, one is a Drudge report.  One is a Patch, one is Syracuse. com, one is Pollack Opinion, Alyssa Goodwin.  But look at these numbers.  Trump 92.  What is it? So I'm winning every poll, I beat crooked Hillary.  Here's the one, Trump 61, crooked Hillary 39.  Okay? That's what it is.  And then I turn on the damn show on Fox.  Again, it's not the same.  It was much better.  It really was.  It was much better.  I turn on Fox and I've got this third rate political journalist, if you call her that saying, "Trump did very poorly in the debates, but he became president. " No, I did great in the debates.  I became president because of the debates, because unlike Mini Mike, I could answer questions.  And here's the final one and I could get you another 15.  These are all the ones that taken right after.  People call in, hundreds of thousands of people, they call in Time Magazine, CNBC.  So here's a CNBC, crooked Hillary Clinton, 39%.  Donald Trump, 61%.  and then this stupid person said I didn't debate well.  Now look, I don't mind and you can have bad debates, but I won every single debate.  Listened to this, then three and a half, four years later I have to listen to a person saying how we didn't do well, because these people are among the most dishonest people anywhere in the world.  Take it.  Take it.  Here it is.  Okay, let's get back to business.  Now I feel good.  Now I feel good.  She's a third rate journalist.  Let's go.  We're standing up in defense of our constitution, our freedom and democracy itself, right? While the extreme left has been wasting America's time and doing all sorts of vial hoaxes, we went through hoaxes.  We went through the impeachment scam.  And by the way, Corey was with us all the way.  He didn't move.  He didn't budge.  He said it's a lot of bull.  He said it's a lot of bull.  But while they're doing that stuff and we're working with a cloud, we're working with these people.  They want to take you out.  They want to change the results.  They got caught spying, let's say it like it is, right? They got caught spying on our election.  Fake news.  Hey fake news, take your cameras for a change and show them the room and show them behind you.  Go ahead, show them the room.  Show them the room.  You see, they never do it, including Fox, by the way.  Fox is not that much better.  We just got lucky because we have some… All their high rated shows are the shows that like Trump, all their losers shows like Cavuto are the shows that don't like Trump.  How is Shep Smith doing lately, by the way? How is Shep Smith? He had the lowest ratings and now Cavuto took his place so that's okay.  But they never show the room.  My wife, a great First Lady, she goes… I say, "Hi honey.  Did you watch the debate?" "Yeah. " "How did the room look? Was that…" because last night I think we turned away 21,000 people.  We had an arena that it held 12, but we fill up the basketball courts, right? Or the ice rink.  We had to have 15, 16,000 people.  It was on fire.  You all saw it.  It was great.  And she said to me, she said, "Darling, how did you do?" I said, "I did great. " I said, "Did you see the arena?" And she said, "No, they never show the arena. " You know that guy Dana White at UFC? I won't tell you about him yet, but he's a brilliant guy, right? I mean, he sold his crazy fighters, I mean bomb bomb bomb.  $4 billion he got with Fertittas, great people.  But you know what? They're always showing it's full.  It's full.  These fakers back there, they don't want people.  But I'll tell you what my wife said, "They don't show it, but you can't imitate 15,000 people when it comes to the noise. " Look, they won't show it.  They never show it and we've never had an empty seat from the day I came down the escalator, not one.  What these guys do if Mr.  And Mrs.  Jones sitting right up there, beautiful couple.  If she said, "Darling, I'm sorry, there's nothing I can do about it, darling.  I have to go to the bathroom. " He said, "Darling, I'll walk with you. " The cameras glong on to those seats, they glong on and they say, "There were two empty seats.  Trump didn't fill up the room. " These are the worst people.  But when I told them to spin around those cameras, they stayed that way.  Now, if we had a protestor somewhere in the arena, it could be up in that corner where it's loaded up with people, those cameras that can do, they look like a pretzel.  They look like a pretzel.  They want to find it.  There's trouble, those same guys could, it could cover anything.  I used to think, well it's the equipment, it's very rigid.  They can't turn it.  And then some idiot from up in the corner starts screaming stupid stuff, because that's dangerous in this room, to be honest.  We don't have it too much.  They only pick on the guys that are all by themselves and aren't fighters.  But if somebody up there does something, those cameras turn around, spin around like a pretzel.  They bend, boom, they get.  So that was the end of my theory that we have rigid equipment.  And by the way, I told them, turn around, not one of those cameras turned around to show the room because it's fake news.  While the extreme left has been wasting America's time with vial hoaxes, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed, right? We added another 225,000 brand new beautiful jobs last month, way, way, way above what our great geniuses back there thought it would be, 225,000.  Think of it, we right now have more people working in our country than at any time in the history of our country, almost 160 billion.  00 in the morning, they are watching.  The whole world was watching.  That was the most exciting television that anybody's ever seen.  Even ESPN, some guy on ESPN said, "This is the most exciting event I've ever seen. " And all he does is watch sporting events and big ones.  But since the election, 7 million brand new beautiful jobs have been added and we've invested more than $2 trillion into that military that we talked about.  And we created- Into that military that we talked about, and we created something that's very exciting.  And we have our great new General.  He's on the … he's on our … I'll tell you, he was on a list of the most incredible men you've ever seen.  The sixth branch of the United States Armed forces, the Space Force.  And I will be making a big decision for the Space Force as to where it's going to be located, and I know you want it.  We'll be making that decision toward the end of the year.  I was here, I did your … I met … I was up at the Air Force Academy, and I greeted those kids, they were so great.  I did the commencement address.  Was anybody there? I did the commencement address.  And the General said, sir, would you like to shake hands with the cadets? I said, does everyone else do it, President? Oh, yes, sir.  What he didn't say is, they'll shake 10 hands.  I said, so they do … how many do you have? Sir, we have 1156 cadets.  I said, you mean other people do it? Yes, sir.  But they don't do 1156.  They'll do 30, 40.  They'll take the top 10 out of the class.  I said, I'll do it.  I stood there for two and a half hours and the sun was blazing.  True.  And I shook 1156 hands.  And a lot of these kids are very strong physically.  In fact, you have one of them as an example, he was the winner of the home run derby.  Did you know that? College … think of that.  The college home run derby.  I said, let me see you.  I want to see what you look like.  He stands up, uniform, everything else.  And by the way, I did something for Air Force, but I did something for all of the academies.  If you were a great athlete and they had a hard time recruiting, although they've done well, if you're a great athlete, you can't … we wanted to get them to go, but they didn't because they didn't want to serve five years in the military and then they'd go into the NFL or baseball.  So, I had one of the teams in.  They said, sir, give us the waiver, sir.  They've been after the waiver.  You know what the waiver is? That means that if you're a great athlete, you can go to the Air Force Academy, or Army, Navy, the Coast Guard, you can go to one of our service academies.  I did the rule and we got it through Congress.  And you don't have to serve.  You go directly into the major leagues and to the NFL, and you serve your time after, when you get out.  Isn't that great? And the Army coach, who's a great guy … all great guys.  Navy coach, Army coach, said sir, if you do that, we can compete with anybody, because we lost lot of great athletes who said, you know, we just can't do that.  Now they serve their time afterwards.  Isn't that great? And we did it.  They've been trying to get that for so many years.  But I love that group of people.  I saw this guy from the home run derby, and I shook hands.  Oh, I shook hands.  And they come up and they're strong people.  And they're shaking, and they're excited.  They're a little nervous, maybe.  They're meeting the President.  They're a little nervous, and they're strong.  They've got big, strong hands, and they're saying … and I'm saying, hello.  Sir, thank you.  Man.  Jeez.  What are you? I'm captain of my wrestling team, sir.  I admire you greatly, sir, thank you, sir.  It's like … and I'm trying to act like it doesn't hurt.  By the end of the day, I'm going like … but we did it.  And then I said, wait a minute.  I said, General, no other President could do that.  The Presidents don't do that.  He said, no, they do, sir, but they stop, usually, at around 50.  Oh, that's great.  But I love the Air Force Academy.  And you have all of the infrastructure, so you're being very strongly considered for the Space Command.  Very strongly.  And actually, I have to say this.  I think I can say this, Mr.  Senator, but the Governor showed up at the plane today, your Governor.  Democrat.  No, but in all fairness, he showed up because he wanted to lobby to see if they could get it.  That's okay, that's all right.  And we are going to be making that decision, Cory, when we make that decision, all right? Okay.  But we've destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate 100 percent.  We killed the founded and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi.  He's dead.  He's dead.  And we just killed the world's number one terrorist, Qasen Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever.  Forever and ever.  He was the king of the roadside bomb, right? When you see these young men and in some cases women, no legs, no arms.  They get it, and 92 percent of them were from Soleimani, and then they started making them … they had great detection.  We had these guys, great detection, then all of a sudden, the detection wasn't working because they started making them out of plastic instead of metal.  So they're blowing the guys up with the scopes, so they had the scopes on and that happened recently because they started making it out of plastic.  Real scum, but he's gone, he's evil, he's dead, and America is respected again like never before.  But as we keep on winning, Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds.  They've gone nuts.  That's why millions of registered Democrats, voters, people that were with the Democrats for a long time, they're leaving their party to join our movement.  They're joining our great Republican party.  We have more enthusiasm than any party has had in the last 50 years.  And don't believe stories, and don't believe polls, because the polls are worse than the stories.  They give phony polls.  00.  The polls have closed … and you know they only announce if you're very … if you're really going to win by a lot.  Otherwise, it takes all night.  The polls have closed in the great state of Texas.  Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas.  Thank you.  But they had Alfred E.  Newman, Buttigieg, little Buttigieg.  I said, I've had you up to here.  They had little Buttigieg leading Donald Trump in Texas.  These people.  But very close.  They said, it's too close to call, where Buttigieg … so, a friend of mine from Texas, a big, powerful, strong guy, real Texas, he's got the cowboy hat … I'd love to wear that hat, I wouldn't have to comb my hair so much.  I wouldn't need hairspray, right? I love those Texas hats.  I don't know if we'd get away with it in Washington, that's my only problem, but I love them.  This guy wears that big hat, the biggest hat.  He's a big guy.  And he's interviewed by somebody.  He said, listen, I don't know much about politics, but I can tell you one thing.  Buttigieg is not tied with the President.  The President is leading him by 20 points.  It's like I said the last time, nobody's leading Trump in Texas.  And you know what? Nobody is even close to us in the great state of Colorado.  We're leading big.  Nobody.  With your energy and enthusiasm, this November, and specifically it's November 3rd is the big day, and this is going to be as big … and I can't say bigger, because what was bigger than that? They came from the hills, they came from the mountains, they came out of the rivers, they came all over the place.  Great people, they just never saw anybody they wanted to vote for.  Women would come in, they hadn't voted in 20 years, great women, beautiful women, strong women, smart women, wives.  No, no, incredible.  And they love our country and they work hard and they pay their taxes and they work and they're … we're the elite, just so you … they're not the elite, we're the elite.  And you know what? They'd show up, they've got Trump bandanas along with our great Vice President Mike Pence, Trump Pence, and they got the hats now and they walk … these are people that were never political people.  They never wore a pin.  Now they've got 30 pins all over their chest, they've got the hats with the things and the Trump, and nobody's ever seen anything like it.  Really, it's a great revolution, and we're turning this country around.  And I'm not saying anything can ever compete with 2016, but I think if we don't do it, a lot of what we've done, and we're going to go over the jobs and the regulation cuts and what we've done for the vets with choice and accountability, but you know what? They can undo it, but in four years they can't undo it, because that tree will be planted.  It will be solid.  They're not going to be able to do it, so we've got to win.  And your second amendment is at stake, remember that.  So this November, we're going to take back the House, we're going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House.  So we're thrilled tonight to be joined by many great leaders from across this incredible state and from all over the country, and I want to thank Mike Pence.  I heard he gave a great speech.  I never want it to be too good.  I never want it to be too good.  I said, Mike, take it easy.  Can't be too got.  Mike is great.  But we have Secretary David Bernhardt, Department of Interior.  Thank you.  Come on up, Dave.  He's great.  What he's doing, by the way, he's the largest landlord by a factor of about 2000.  Department of the Interior.  You're taking good care of Colorado, please? Okay.  He's a big deal in Colorado, right? He's a big deal.  All those beautiful mountains and rivers and lakes, he's the guy.  You better keep them nice and clean.  Believe me, we like the environment more than anybody.  We want clean water and we want clean air.  And you have warriors.  You have guys, they fought for us.  197 to nothing.  We were … when you think of it, the Republicans, 197 on the house to nothing.  Congressman Ken Buck, come on up.  Congressman Scott Tipton.  And Congressman Doug Lamborn.  Thank you, Doug.  Thank you.  And we're also joined tonight by somebody that you really love, and I love him, too, but there's a reason.  He's my son.  Don junior.  And Kimberly Guilfoyle.  Kimberly, thank you, Kimberly.  And a man … he happens to own the Chicago Cubs, but that's okay.  He's done an incredible job, actually.  He had a five year plan on the fifth year, the stadium was fully rebuilt, and they won the World Series.  That's not bad.  He had a five year plan.  RNC finance chairman Todd Ricketts.  Come on up, Todd.  Come on up.  Come on up, Todd.  And I mentioned him a little earlier, but you didn't know he was here.  I just said he's a champion, he's a winner.  He's been a friend of mine for a long time.  He's a tough cookie.  He's the kind of people that made our country great.  Truly, they've made our country great.  He started off with two people fighting each other, then he got four people fighting each other, then he got them fighting each other, each other.  Then he got six and eight and 12.  All of a sudden people started watching and looking, and I was proud to hold his first event.  That's why he loves me.  They didn't want … they said, it's too dangerous.  Nobody would take it.  I'm the only who said, take it.  We'll take it.  And it was unbelievable.  I went and I said, this is great.  Let's do it again.  And he has been my friend for a long time.  And they put together a phenomenal deal, it's called UFC.  He's the UFC president.  And they just sold the company.  He started it off for about $ 30, and they just sold it for $4 billion.  And the people that bought it said, we're not buying it unless Dana White stays back and runs it.  So Dana White, come on up.  He's now a very wealthy guy.  Come here.  You want to hear from him? Yes.  What's up, Colorado? How are you today? So, I'm not a very political person, I'll start there, but let me say this.  There's things that I can tell you about the President of the United States that you don't hear on t. v.  and you don't hear from other people.  Like you said, I've known this man for 20 years.  We've actually become even closer since he's become the President of the United States.  When somebody becomes the President of the United States, you don't ever expect to hear from them again, and I understand it.  It absolutely makes sense.  This guy is so loyal and such a good friend, every time I see him … I saw him today.  When I met him on Air Force One, the first thing he said to me is, how is your family? How is your family? Good man, very loyal, and a very good friend.  I see a lot of things from Mr.  Trump that the public doesn't see, and the people who surround me every day see how this man treats me as a friend, and other people he's friends with.  He's a fighter, he loves this country, he's doing great things for this country, and we got to win this election again, ladies and gentlemen.  Thank you.  That was beautiful, because we get tired of hearing from these politicians all the time.  Right, politicians? What a job he does, and we thank you very much, Dana, and you are my great friend, and thank you.  But with Cory and with me, they're not going to play with your second amendment.  Not going to happen, but it's … it is under siege.  You see what's happening.  But somebody … we fight together, and he's been so great.  Cory Gardner, please come on up, please.  Thank you.  That's beautiful.  That's true of the pipeline.  A long time they've been trying.  We got it right away, and we'll be announcing something very big toward the end of the year.  Cory is a champion for the people of Colorado.  He loves your state.  Look, he loves your state.  He was here, he does the tractor thing.  He loves tractors, he sells a certain type.  And don't worry, if there's any noise, just let them … they won't hear us.  And he's got my complete and total support and endorsement.  He will never let you down.  The unemployment rate among African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Asian-Americans has reached the lowest levels ever recorded.  And for women, 71 years, and soon you're going to be hitting the historic number.  71 years, the best numbers in 71 years.  African-American and Hispanic-American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rates ever recorded.  The unemployment rate for women is going … and I'm telling you, within a very short period of time, you're going to see some statistics coming out on … statistics.  I've got to do it right, otherwise they'll say, what's wrong? If you go 16 of these, and if you mispronounce one word, they say, what's wrong? Statistics for women that are going to be unbelievable.  They're going to be unbelievable.  The best ever.  The veterans' unemployment rate dropped to a record low.  Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment ever recorded in U. S.  history.  Half a million more Hispanic-Americans now own a home.  We've lifted 10 million people off of welfare, and median household income is now at the highest level in the history of our country.  Think of that.  Think of this.  To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most we created with Tim Scott great guy, great Senator from South Carolina, opportunity zones.  Jobs and investment are now pouring in to over 125 newly-designated opportunity zones right here in Colorado.  You know about that, right? It's been amazing.  Opportunity zones are amazing, what's happened.  We're supporting working families by fighting for paid family leave and getting it, reducing the cost of child care, and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pockets directly thanks to the Republican child tax credit.  People don't know that.  Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is ending the tyranny of Washington bureaucrats.  We repealed the ridiculous waters of the United States rule, which was basically taking away your property.  And we are taking the Bureau of Land Management out of Washington, DC.  We're just on it, and thank you very much Secretary Bernhardt.  Just up here, nice, slim, beautiful looking man.  He looks beautiful.  When you work with him he's beautiful because he gets it done, and you're moving it and it's headquarters to Grand Junction, Colorado because we believe that the people who manage the lands of the great American west should live right here in the great American west.  And we have ended the war on American energy.  It was a war, and we're up here and we're doing it.  We are right now energy independent, can you believe it? They want to use wind, wind, wind.  Blow wind, please.  Please blow.  Please keep the birds away from those windmills, please.  Tell those beautiful bald eagles, oh, a bald eagle.  You know, if you shoot a bald eagle, they put you in jail for a long time, but the windmills knock them out like crazy.  It's true.  And I think they have a rule, after a certain number are killed you have to close down the windmill until the following year.  Do you believe this? Do you believe this? And they're all made in China and in Germany.  Siemans.  And for those of you that want to hear it, when they're making them, more stuff goes up into the air and up into the ozone, the atmosphere.  More stuff is going up there, they're making it, ay, ay, ay.  And they don't say this, but after a period of time they get tired, they get old, they get rusty, and a lot of the guys say, hey, their useful life is gone.  Let's get the hell out of here, and they're all over the place.  You look at Palm Springs, California.  Take a look.  Palm Springs, they're all over the place.  They're closed, they're rotting, they look like hell.  Every major Democrat running for President wants to entirely eliminate American production of oil and natural gas, crushing Colorado's economy, destroying tens of thousands of Colorado energy jobs and demolishing property values all across the state.  They're doing that.  Look, you're going to vote for one of these people, probably crazy Bernie.  He seems to be leading.  Mini Mike, I thought he might come up, but he can't because he can't debate.  He wasn't meant for the camera, do we agree? He wasn't exactly great last night.  No, I think he lost too last night.  Only in Colorado could somebody say that.  No, you're going to probably … it looks like Bernie, doesn't it? It looks like crazy Bernie.  Crazy Bernie's not big into natural gas and oil, and the things that keep our great factories and plants going.  But Colorado voters will never let it happen.  We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies.  America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the WTO.  But under this administration, all of that is changing.  The era of economic surrender is over, thank you.  It's over.  Last month, we ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new U. S-Mexico-Canada agreement into law.  Incredible deal.  The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Colorado and every other state.  Also, something we got that people don't talk about, if you love your children, you don't have to pay estate taxes on your beautiful small farms and businesses.  If you love your children, it's great, and if you don't love your children, don't worry about it.  Who in the hell knows.  If you don't love them, don't leave that beautiful farm to your children.  Give it to somebody else, okay? If they don't treat you well, give don't leave them a damn thing.  Are you listening, Donnie? Are you listening, Donnie? I also took … no, it is true.  That's a big deal.  Farmers were leaving their ranch and their farms and their … people were leaving their small businesses to their family and they were being assessed in valued much higher in many cases than it was worth.  You couldn't do it.  They'd go out … your kids would go out and borrow a lot of money.  They'd end up losing their business, losing your farm that was in your family for 150 years.  You know what happens.  And they're good kids, and maybe they'll never be you.  They can't farm like you and maybe they can't any maybe they can, maybe they're better.  But you know what? They'd go out and they'd borrow a lot of money and they'd lose the farm.  The numbers are staggering.  We got rid of it.  No more death tax, no more inheritance tax.  And I also took the strongest ever action to confront China's massive theft of American jobs.  What they've done to us over the years, we were losing 200 billion, 300, 400, 500, not million, billion.  Billion.  Not million.  500 million would be a lot.  We're talking about 500 billion, they were taking it.  Our strategy worked.  We put tariffs up, 25 percent on the first 250 billion.  Billions of dollars poured into the United States.  They devalued their currency and they pumped money in.  We didn't pay for it despite the fact that these guys … they like to say they did, we didn't pay for it, and I'll tell you what.  China- They like to say they did.  We didn't pay for it.  I'll tell you what, China came to the table, and we made a deal that's great for us and hopefully it's great for them.  Last month, as you know, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and boost American exports $250 billion worth of purchases, $50 billion worth of farm agricultural purchase, $50 billion.  You know the most they ever purchased were $16 billion.  You know that story.  I've told it a couple of times.  $16 billion was the most ever.  Secretary Sonny Purdue agriculture, he's done a great job.  I said, "Who's the most? What's the biggest year?" "$16 billion, sir. " I said, "All right, make it 20. " So they agreed on 20 so now we're getting ready to close the deal, biggest trade deal ever made, biggest deal ever made.  We're getting ready to close the deal between that and USMCA.  We're getting ready to close it.  I go over, I say, "What do you have down for the farmers? They've been great," although I have been helping you out.  I gave you a lot of money.  I gave you a lot of money.  $16 billion on year, $12 billion from the year before.  I took it out of the tariffs or we had a lot leftover, but think of it.  But I said, "So tell me fellas, let me ask you, what do we have? What's the number?" " 20 billion, sir. " They're going to purchase 20 billion worth of farm products.  I said, "Make it 50.  Tell them to make it 50. " So, we went to China and they were great.  You know they got 1. 5 billion people.  You got a lot of feeding to do.  I said, "Do me a favor, instead of 20 billion purchased from our farmers, would you make it 50?" "No, no, no, no, no," and they agreed to do it.  They agreed to it.  I don't think you're going to be able to make it.  You better be able to make it.  I don't want the farmers coming to me, sir, sir, I'm sorry we can't produce that much, sir.  I said, "Our farmers will find a way.  They'll go out and buy larger tractors and they'll buy some extra land. " Go out and buy a bigger tractor or something.  No, but it is true.  I've had people say, "Sir, they can't produce that much. " I said, "Forget it. " They will.  Look at them.  You're a farmer.  They'll figure that one out.  Although Mike Bloomberg said you'll never figure it out.  They'll figure it out long before him.  You'll figure that one out long before him.  No, I know the farmers.  I'm not worried about it.  $50 billion on no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than on immigration.  Every day Democrats open border policies are harming and killing innocent lives.  This region alone, last year ICE officers arrested over 2000, and by the way, our ICE officers, these guys are tough and they're brave.  Over 2000 criminal aliens, that's MS-13 gangs, thousands, and they bring them back to where they came from.  By the way, now their countries take them back.  They weren't taking them back, safe third agreements.  They take them back.  Charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, and murder.  We bring them back and in some cases we don't even want to bring them back.  We have to put them.  I don't want to house them for the next 50 years, but you know what? We don't want to take chances either, but we'll bring them back to Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico.  We bring them back.  They didn't use to take them.  They said, "We don't want them back.  Oh, okay, we'll keep them ourselves. " We don't do that anymore.  In Denver, an illegal alien was recently charged with brutally stabbing a judge multiple times, attempting to murder him his own home.  The alien had been arrested 36 times over the past 20 years.  Other than that, he was a very fine fellow, for crimes including assault and child abuse, yet somehow they kept letting him go and he was still in our country.  In communities across the nation, radical, and we're watching them very closely, left wing politicians are imposing deadly sanctuary cities, and sanctuary states, and policies that compel local law enforcement to release these illegal aliens straight into your beautiful communities.  Last year, Colorado Democrats enacted a law declaring this entire state to be a sanctuary for dangerous criminals.  As a result of state and local sanctuary policies, officials in Boulder defied federal law enforcement and released a previously deported child molester into the community.  In Denver, officials released a criminal alien arrested on felony drug charges, and now he is a very dangerous man.  We just caught him for attempted murder.  Right here in Colorado Springs, El Paso County officials defied the requests of federal law enforcement and released a criminal alien arrested for robbery, assault, and kidnapping.  They released him straight into your community.  These are the Democrats.  These are your Democrats.  Democrats think that Colorado should be a haven for murderers, predators, kidnappers, and felons in our country and that come in illegally.  Republicans believe that Colorado should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens.  If you want to shut down sanctuary cities and stop sanctuary states, if you want to protect your family and your loved ones, you must vote for Cory, vote for Trump, vote for the Republican party.  We're getting it done.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we've reduced illegal border crossings for eight straight months in a row.  Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring, and we have ended the horrible practice of catch and release.  You know what you do? You catch him.  You say, "Where do you live?" They don't live here.  They don't have an address.  "Where do you live? Give us your address. " They don't have an address.  Many are criminals.  Many are very dangerous criminals.  So they're saying, and we are building the wall.  It's gone up 122 miles as of yesterday.  It's a serious wall.  Did you hear? Two weeks ago, a small section, twice the size of this stage, we were putting it up and they're pouring the concrete, and a lot of, it's Mexico, it's very rough territory, some of it.  It's partially desert.  We were in a rough area, very windy, and we had a tremendous sand and wind storm.  So we hadn't put it in.  We put it in and it was just getting set, and we got hit with a tornado of wind and it blew it down, and the fake news said Trump's wall fell down.  It was blown down.  But see, at least we have a voice where we can explain.  It's true.  We lifted it up and we held it up.  When the storm went by, we had it set and it's set beautifully, and the following day, that sucker is going to be up for many, many years.  Can you imagine? I said what happened in a certain area, and we're doing a great job by the way, in New Mexico.  New Mexico is going to be a great, great state for the Republican party, and Arizona, what we're doing on the border in Arizona, they want us to do it badly.  But can you imagine that? A thing falls over because the concrete was just poured, it's soaking wet and it falls over, and they make it sound like the wall fell down.  These are very, very dishonest people, but you know that.  Border patrol has seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics over the last year ever recorded.  It's horrible what's happening, the largest amount ever recorded.  We've deported record numbers of gang members, especially the MS-13 gang members, but there are others that are just as bad.  We've done more to secure the border than any administration in the history of our country.  The border is going to be very soon secured.  We'll have, some time next year, over 500 miles of beautiful, powerful wall built.  Washington Democrats have never been more extreme taking cues from crazy Bernie Sanders, 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie's healthcare takeover that would strip 180 million Americans of their great private coverage that you want.  While the Socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare, and trying to destroy your social security, that won't happen with me, my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great, great healthcare, already done a good job.  We're defending your right to keep the doctor, and to keep the plan of your choice.  Remember, President Obama 28 times, he said, "Keep your doctor.  Keep your plan.  Keep your doctor.  Keep your plan.  Keep your doctor.  Keep your plan. " Right? It was a lie.  We should impeach him.  We should impeach him.  Impeach Obama.  Get him out of office.  No, nobody thought of that.  We caught him in a lie 28 times at least.  He's on record.  We caught him in a lie, but nobody said let's impeach him.  Only these maniacs, crazy Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer.  What about the little pencil neck, right? Pencil neck.  He's got the world's smallest neck.  Here's a guy that lied about my statement.  He made up a statement and he delivered it before a contract.  He made up a statement.  It was totally fiction.  He made it up and then they tell me, you're getting ready to sue him, and they say, "Oh no, he's protected because he made the statement in the halls of Congress. " That should be worse.  No, that should worse.  Little wise guy.  We're making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the five years before I took office.  We're now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive and they're better.  They're better.  We're protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will.  We're fighting to stop surprise medical billing.  I signed an executive order imposing price transparency.  That's going to be bigger than healthcare in a certain way.  Watch the prices come down because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very, very fast.  We have approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the name brand drugs, but at a tiny fraction of the cost.  We have totally transform veteran's health care, including getting the long sought VA choice and VA accountability.  So, now if our veterans have to wait in line, they go out to a doctor, a local doctor, we pay the bill and they're all set.  They don't have to wait for six weeks.  He's agreeing, right? Good.  Right? You don't see those stories.  You used to see all these horrible vet stores, veterans, the veterans on television, and you don't see it because veterans choice, it's amazing.  Our great veterans, here's a man right here.  You're saying, yes.  Purple Heart.  Thank you.  Thank you.  That's great.  But it's a lot different under Trump, isn't it? A lot different under Trump, and now you go out to a private doctor, but you know, we also got accountability.  They've been trying to get these things done for 45, 46, 48 years, couldn't get them done.  I'm good at getting things approved.  I have to say.  But, we also got accountability where we can fire people that aren't taking care of our vets.  If somebody isn't doing a good job, you couldn't fire him.  Now you look at him, you say, "Get the hell out of here.  You're fired. " We passed another thing.  For 44 years, they've been trying to get it passed, the spectacular Right to Try, where we can use our medicines that are in trial if somebody is terminally ill or very sick, we can use it and we are having tremendous results, Right to Try.  I hope that nobody in this room needs it.  I hope you don't need it, but if you do, we have the best in the world, and we're seeing amazing results.  We're combating the opioid epidemic.  Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years.  We are pursuing new advances in neonatal research to care for America's youngest patients and breaking all records in so doing.  All of the radical Democrats in the Presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up until the very moment of birth.  You know that.  That is why at my State of the Union, I asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion for babies, because republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total obliteration of your second amendment.  That's what it is.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln.  People forget that.  People forget Honest Abe.  He's the most presidential guy.  I've always said I could be more presidential than anybody, but I'm not sure I can beat Honest Abe when he wears the hat.  That hat is too much.  It's so easy to be presidential, so easy.  It's so much easier than doing what I have to do, but you know what I'd have? I'd have about three people in the front row.  How about sleepy Joe? How about his performance? What? What? It's great to be with the great people of Ohio.  Joe, Joe, you're in Iowa.  You're an Iowa.  Oh, wow.  He did it five times.  So far, I've never done it.  Thank you.  I've never done it.  If I do it, that's a bad sign.  Now he does it all the time.  He was in New Hampshire and he said he was in Vermont.  It's great to be in Vermont.  Joe, you're in New Hampshire.  Dammit.  He'd go up and tell him again and again.  Joe, what the hell is wrong with you, Joe? Sleepy Joe.  He's sleepy Joe.  He was sleepy a long time ago, but now he's really sleeping.  But it's easy to be presidential.  You know that.  The easiest thing you could do is presidential.  Never open your jacket.  Never.  It's got to be buttoned up.  Right? Ladies and gentleman, the President of the United States.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  It's so great to be with the people of Colorado.  Thank you, everybody.  Good night.  Good night.  No, no.  It's so easy.  It's so easy, honestly.  Look, I did very well with the State of the Union, right? They said it was one of the best.  Smart, smart.  Smart guy.  We do good.  We're representing you.  I better do good.  If I didn't do good, you'd dump me so fast.  Actually, I don't think you would dump be so fast, actually.  You want to know the thing? She said, "we're never dumping you. " Fake news CNN went up to a woman.  "What does it take for you to leave the President?" "I'm not leaving him. " There were 10 women, and the one woman, beautiful, incredible women, and they had their bandanas, they had hats, Trump, and stupid CNN, they go up, "What does it take for you?" Then he goes, "Look, he said one time that his people are so good, they'd stay with him if he shot somebody in the middle of Fifth Avenue. " Do you remember? Right? " Would you stay if he shot somebody?" This is actually an answer, or something to the effect, "Would you say every shot somebody in the middle of Fifth Avenue?" The woman looks, "Well, it depends why he shot him. " Makes sense.  Depends why he shot him.  But then they said, "We're not leaving him.  We're never leaving him. " We're in thing together, folks.  We got the swamp.  We got that dirty, rotten swamp.  We got crooked politicians.  We got a lot of bad people, but we're getting them out one by one.  We better be, little Adam Schiff, that little Adam Schiff.  What a crooked politician.  He's a corrupt politician.  Talking about guys, he'll lie and then the next day get caught.  He'll be sorry that he got caught.  The next day he'll walk up to the mic and say exactly the same thing.  He's got no shame.  He's got no shame.  He's a liar.  I think he's a sick person.  Republicans are fighting for the citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life.  You know that we're the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy and enthusiasm.  We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement.  We are the big tent.  We are the big party.  We have the big ideas for the future.  Republicans are fighting for school choice, big deal, it's a big deal, because no parents should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.  To uphold the new rule of law, we have confirmed 217 brand new, beautiful federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written.  That's a record.  That is a record that it includes 192 judges who are appointed for a lifetime.  So, think of it.  If they're 40 years old, if they're 45 years old, they can be there for 40, 50 years.  As you know, and by the way, that's a record by a lot.  I have the record, but there's one record that probably nobody will get the percentage record.  Who has the percentage? Do you know? George Washington, 100%.  But it was only 16 people.  So, with 217, can you imagine that? It's a record and we're going up.  We're going up.  The Democrats are thrilled about that one, and as you know, I have nominated and we have confirmed two great new Supreme court justices, Colorado zone, right? Colorado.  That's right.  Colorado zone, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  Neil Gorsuch, that's right.  Colorado.  He's a great guy, too, great guy.  Colorado.  That's a big thing.  That's another great check you have down for count.  Neil Gorsuch.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  They said they were going to do it for years.  We recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  Our investments in the United States military include more than $300 million this year.  Has anyone ever heard of a place called Fort Carson? Another place, Peterson Air Force Base, you know that.  Another place, the Air Force Academy, you know that, and Schriever, right, Air Force Base Schriever.  Schriever.  Was that right? Schriever, right? Schriever, that's a little tricky one.  It took me a little while.  I'm looking at that sucker.  I'm saying, "Schriever, right. " Thank you.  That's very nice.  He saw he was having a little trouble with that one.  That's tricky.  You don't like to mispronounce a word.  You come to a great place like this and instead of calling it Fort Carson, you go at Fort crasson, and they say, "Oh, this guy doesn't know anything about us. " No, a lot of money going into Fort Carson.  It's great.  For years, you watched as your politicians apologize for America.  You saw that.  Well, I'd like to apologize.  We don't apologize.  Now you have a President who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Colorado.  At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for, they wanted to secure these great rights that we all have, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020, November 3rd.  Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all.  We'll get it finished.  We'll get it finished.  They're bad people.  They're all over the place.  They're bad people.  With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  You know that.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration.  We will continue to enact great new trade deals like we've been doing.  I'm going to India next week and we're talking trade.  They've been hitting us very hard for many, many years, but I really like Prime Minister Modi.  We got to talk a little.  We've got to talk a little business.  They've been hitting us hard.  They give us tariffs.  One of the highest in the world is India.  But I hear they're going to have 10 million people, they say anywhere from six to 10 million people are going to be showing up along the route to one of the largest stadiums in the world, the largest cricket stadium in the world, which is brand new and beautiful.  But you know what, and the only problem with doing that, Prime Minister Modi said, "We will have 10 million people greet you. " Here's my problem.  We have a packed house.  We have a lot of people, thousands of people that couldn't get in.  It's going to look like peanuts from now on.  I'll never be satisfied with the crowd.  If we have 10 million people in India, how can I be satisfied if we fill up a 60,000 seat stadium? Big deal.  See, I'm getting spoiled.  He said, "Build a bigger stadium. " That's good.  Colorado, very good.  But it's going to result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA.  That beautiful phrase.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer.  They've made such progress, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America.  We started a year ago.  It should have been started long before in the last administration because they had the technology then.  They didn't start it, but we're starting it.  We'll have it done within nine years.  It's a 10 year process.  Think of that.  AIDS.  we will land the first woman on the moon and become the first station in the world to plant our flag on Mars.  You have a lot of that action happening right here.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  That's a big one.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one, beautiful America.  We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  We live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust, from Pueblo to Fort Collins, from Denver to Durango, from Black Forest to Broomfield, from Castle Rock to right here in Colorado Springs, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American Patriots who poured out their heart, and sweat, and soul, to secure our liberty and defend our freedom.  Colorado was founded by pioneers and prospectors, cowboys and miners, and ranchers who tamed the wilderness, explored the west, scaled the Rockies, fought the battles, and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the Earth, and we are making it greater every single day greater than ever before.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.  America's thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of Colorado, the best is yet to come.  Together we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you people of Colorado. 



Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Hello Dallas.  It's great to be with you tonight.  Thank you.  I am thrilled to be here deep in the heart of Texas where we just opened a beautiful new Louie Vuitton plant.  I'm with the freedom loving Patriots of the lone star state.  I love it.  There has never been a better time to be a proud Texan and there's never a better time to be a proud American.  There never has.  Never has.  I came from a small town, Alvarado, Texas where we celebrated the incredible revival of American manufacturing and we opened up some beautiful places.  I'll tell you, this place is doing great and created in a very short period of time an extra 1000 jobs for Texas.  Since my election, we've created 775,000 new jobs across your state including 70,000 Texas manufacturing jobs.  They said those jobs had disappeared, didn't they? Huh? Hey man, our country is once again living by two simple rules, buy American and hire American.  The economy is booming.  Our people are prospering.  Our country is thriving and our nation is stronger than ever before.  But the more America achieves, the more hateful and enraged these crazy Democrats become.  Crazy.  They're crazy.  They're crazy.  At stake in this fight is their survival of American democracy itself.  Don't kid yourself.  That's what they want.  They are destroying this country but we will never let it happen.  Not even close.  For three straight years, radical Democrats have been drawing to overthrow the results of a great, great election.  Maybe, maybe the greatest election in the history of our country.  They want to oppose an extreme agenda.  They cannot pass it and they cannot win it at the ballot box.  They're not going to win.  The not even going to get … they won't come close in 2020.  They know it.  They know it.  They're not going to win it.  They say, let's see.  What's another idea? What's another idea? How do we win this election? You know, I really don't believe anymore that they love our country.  I don't believe it.  Crazy Nancy.  Think of that.  That crazy Nancy.  She is crazy.  And shifty Schiff.  How about this guy? He makes up my conversation, which was perfect.  He makes up my conversation.  He sees what I said.  It doesn't play well because it was perfect.  So he made up a totally false conversation with the Ukrainian president and we caught him cold.  Everybody knew it anyway.  See, we did one thing.  You always have to do the unexpected.  They never thought I'd released the conversation with the Ukrainian president.  I want to get him before Congress and I want to see what he has to say.  You know, they say he has immunity.  Why would you have immunity for outright fraud? Why do you have immunity? Why? He's a fraud.  We're fighting a campaign against leftist, socialist, and globalists who want to return to reckless wars, open borders, rampant crime, and totally disastrous one way trade deals.  We're changing that one around very quickly.  They believe America is the world's piggy bank and that your tax dollars should subsidize the economy, military and defense of every other nation in the world but our own.  It's not happening anymore.  Our political opposition made its fortune selling out our nation and its citizens.  And you know that's what's been happening.  And that's why 2016 was so important.  And that's why 2020, I can never say it's more important, but you know it's like the roots of a tree.  You plant the baby tree, it's got to catch, get that extra time.  We'll have more tax cuts.  We'll have even … I'll tell you what, we have rebuilt our military.  What we've done has never been done before.  The do nothing democrats have betrayed our country and that great betrayal is over.  We are finally again, and we've been doing it now for almost three years.  Can you believe we've been doing this for three years? Can you believe it? I've been a politician for three years.  I can't believe that.  I never thought I'd be called a politician.  I don't like it.  But it is what it is.  But we're finally again putting America first.  The radical Democrats want to destroy America as we know it.  They want to indoctrinate our children and teach them that America is a sinful, wicked nation.  You see that happening all the time.  And I know it from personal experience.  What they want to teach your kids, not good.  They come home, mommy, daddy, this is what I learned.  And you're going, oh no, don't tell me.  Let's get them into another school fast.  They want to disarm law abiding citizens.  They want to take your guns away.  They want to install far left judges to shred our constitution.  It's not happening.  They want to tear down symbols of faith and drive Christians and religious believers from the public square.  They want to silence your voices on social media and they want the government to censor, muzzle, and shut down conservative voices.  You know that.  If they didn't hate our country, they wouldn't be doing this to our country.  They wouldn't be doing it because they know better.  They know better.  As an example, we're building a great wall along the Southern border and it's going up rapidly.  Going up.  And you know, five years ago almost every one of them wanted a wall until I came along and I said, we're going to build a great wall because they could never get it done.  Then they stopped the funding.  They made it almost impossible.  Few people would've been able to do what we did, but we got it from here and we got it from there and we got it from all over the place and we're building that sucker right now and it's having a tremendous effect already.  Not easy.  Highest level.  Everything we said it would be, it's moving rapidly.  Although the fake news back there, they don't want to talk about it.  They don't want to talk about it.  Look at all those cameras.  You believe it.  Look at all those red lights.  Don't worry.  I won't say anything bad about your network because a lot of times I get ready to do a number of these phony networks and you know, you see those red lights go off, off, off, off.  They don't want their viewers to see it, but that's okay.  I'm not going to say it tonight.  I'm going to say you're legitimate media.  I don't actually mean that.  But you look at that.  But look at all those cameras.  You know that's like the Academy Awards used to be before it failed.  You know why it failed? You know why it failed? Because they came after us.  That's why it failed.  It failed because they had stupid people saying horrible things about us.  Stupid.  stupid people.  They are stupid people and their ratings have dropped like a rocket.  I love seeing it.  I'm telling you.  Love it.  But no matter how hard they try, they will fail because the people of Texas and the people of America will never surrender our freedom to those people right there.  We will stand strong for family, faith, God, and for country.  Last week, a very dumb Democrat candidate for president, that's the end of him in this state, pledged to revoke the tax exempt status of many churches and religious charities.  By the way, that was after a few weeks ago.  He said, excuse me, we're going to take your guns away.  That doesn't work well with me.  I called him right.  Remember the flailing arms? Nobody noticed it.  I noticed it.  The flailer.  You remember he was flailing all over the place.  I said why is this guy hot? John Cornyn's going to win so easily.  Just like Ted Cruz won.  He's going to win no matter what happens.  But John Cornyn is not talking about Beto anymore because Beto, in a few short weeks got rid of guns and got rid of religion.  Those are not two good things in Texas to get rid of.  I will never allow the federal government to be used to punish Americans for their religious beliefs.  I will never allow the IRS to be used as a political weapon, except in the case of myself where they use it against me.  The radical left tolerates no dissent.  It permits no opposition.  It accepts no compromise.  These people are crazy.  And it has absolutely no respect for the will of the American people.  First it was the Russia hoax.  Then it was the smearing which continues, that disgraceful, disgusting smearing of a fine man, Justice Kavanaugh.  And now they continue the outrageous impeachment witch hunt with nothing.  With nothing.  They come after me, but what they're really doing is they're coming after the Republican party and what they're really, really doing is they're coming after and fighting you.  And we never lose.  I'm fighting for everyone who believes in the values, traditions, and principles that have made our nation the greatest in the history of the world.  And I have to say this, we are far greater now than ever before.  You go back four years, you go back seven, six, eight, even you go back into another administration, you go back 10 and 12 years, where were you compared to where you are right now? We must hold the Democrats accountable for their lies and their corruption.  They are corrupt people.  And we must show and vote and we have to go out and we have to win this election coming up.  It's going to be a landslide and we have to make it a landslide.  Today's do nothing democrats, they don't do anything.  Where's the USMCA? Everybody wants it.  The Democrats even want it and crazy Nancy won't let anybody vote on it.  She's nuts.  Today's Democrats believe anyone who opposes them must be crushed.  It's not just like, let's win.  You know, I have to say this.  The Republicans said, I'm not sure I like this because my life hasn't been this way, but the Republicans play a much softer game.  They really do.  When all of our stars, and we have great stars, when they went to our speaker of the house at the time and they asked for subpoenas, oh, let's take it easy.  Let's … okay.  I mean, I get that too.  She hands them out like it's cookies.  Here.  Subpoena.  I heard a commentator who happens to be standing right there the other day.  Doesn't like us at all.  But said, I've never seen anyone hand out so many subpoenas.  I have people getting subpoenas I never heard of.  I said, who are those people? Never saw anything like it.  It's a disgrace what they're doing to our country.  We became, because of what they do, not the Republicans and not what we've done because what they've done and what they see.  When people come to my office, which is now the oval office, which is your office too.  Presidents, Prime Ministers, Kings, Queens.  I hate to say it.  Sometimes dictators, they just don't like to go by that title.  They say, sir, congratulations sir on what you've done.  Congratulations on what you've done.  It's incredible.  Your economy is the greatest on earth.  And let me tell you it, if my crooked opponent would have won the election right now China would be by far the number one nation from an economic standpoint in the world.  We've gone up trillions of dollars.  They've gone down trillions of dollars, and we are so far number one, so far that they'll never catch us if we are smart right here.  But the do nothing Democrats believe anyone who opposes them has to be crushed.  They don't want to just beat them.  They don't want to just beat him.  These are sick people.  They want to crush these people.  The anger, the hatred, and that any lie or crime or corruption is justified so Schiff gets up and makes up my statement.  He makes it up 100% and then he said he didn't speak to the whistle blower.  No, we didn't see the whistleblower.  And what about the whistleblower? The whistleblower got it all wrong.  Who's the whistleblower? Who's the whistleblower? Who is the whistleblower? We have to know.  Is the whistleblower a spy? And who is the IG that did this? All he had to do is look at the tape or look at what they wrote down, the transcribed version of the phone call.  Compare that to the whistle blower's account and you see it had nothing to do with it.  So why does the IG allow a thing like this to happen to our country? Why? Why? Got a lot of bad people out there, but one by one we're advancing.  One by one.  Just look at the terrible foreign corruption of the Bidens.  I hate to talk about him.  You know why? I don't think the guy's got a chance.  Sleepy Joe.  I don't think he's got it.  I don't see it.  I don't know.  I've got these great, brilliant senators over here.  I have all these congressmen over here.  Fellows I don't think he has a chance.  I'd like him to.  I'd like him to.  You know I thought Pocahontas was gone, left in embers.  You got to give her credit.  Those embers, they kept going, going, going.  Now it looks like she's doing better.  But I don't think Joe has a chance.  But did you see the other night where CNN, in a totally unsubstantiated statement, the president said this about you.  We're so sorry he said that.  His son walked out with a billion and a half dollars from China.  These were not the same Chinese people I just dealt with.  I will tell you that.  But Joe Biden was in charge of Ukraine policy while his son with absolutely no energy experience just got thrown out of the Navy like a dog, was paid massive sums of money by a Ukrainian energy company.  You know that's called? It's called a payoff, folks.  He didn't no energy at all, knew nothing about energy.  They hired him, paying him massive amounts of money, much more than the $50,000 a month you heard about.  That's a lot.  That's a lot.  But much more.  Joe Biden made them go out and fire the prosecutor on tape.  But they don't want to show the tape.  I had to put it up on my social media site.  They don't want to show the tape where he was bragging.  You're not going to get this money unless they get rid of … and boom, they got rid of the prosecutor.  He was investigating the son and the son's company.  Got rid of him.  Now that's what you call quid pro quo.  While these charges are totally unsubstantiated.  These are the fake newsers out there.  And then Biden flew.  Think of it.  He goes into a tough place.  We just met such a great deal with China.  Just think of this.  My guy said, if we could get 20 billion in agricultural product, that would be good.  The most China ever did was 16 billion for our farmers.  Okay.  We're just talking about the farmers.  We did banking.  We did everything.  But we're talking about them.  The most they ever did was 20 billion of product from our farmers.  Our great farmers.  Our patriot farmers.  Our farmers that never left us even though they were being targeted by China.  They never left me.  So they wanted 20 in China agreed.  I said, nope, no good.  I want 50 billion, not 20 billion.  50.  So my guys say, sir, we have a problem, sir.  Our farmers cannot produce that much.  It's true.  I said, tell them to go out and get bigger tractors, right? John Deere case, Caterpillar, all American.  Only American tractors.  We only buy American tractors.  Go out and get bigger.  So now China's agreed.  They've already started buying.  Hopefully the agreement gets signed sometime prior to a big summit that we have with president Xi and others in Chile.  That's in about four weeks.  But they give this.  They said, sir, they can't produce $50 billion.  I said, I want the farmers to tell me … remember the story about winning? We're going to win so much.  We're going into the White House.  We're going to tell the president, sir, we just can't stand winning.  The state of Texas, John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, they're going to come into my office.  Sir, we just can't stand this winning in Texas anymore.  It's too much.  We can't handle it.  Well, that's what I want from the farmers.  I want the farmers to say.  I want the farmers to say, sir, we just can't produce that much product.  We can't do it, sir.  And I'm going to say yes, you can.  And they're going to say, no, we can't.  I'm going to say yes you can.  And they're going to go out and they get to take in 50 billion from China as opposed to 20.  That's what's going to happen.  That's what's going to happen.  But they were great.  They stuck with us through thick and thin.  Now it's really working out for a lot of different groups.  In the meantime we've taken in tens of billions of dollars of tariffs and China's eaten the cost because they devalued their currency and they put money out.  Tens of billions of dollars.  It's cost us nothing.  Billions and billions and billions.  You know what I did for the farmer? During the lean times, I gave them 16 billion last year and 12 billion the year before.  $28 billion altogether came out of the tariffs that I had a lot of money leftover and nobody complained.  You know our farmers didn't want that money.  Our farmers didn't want it.  True story.  Everybody comes for money.  Countries come for … everybody wants money, right? They all want our money.  The farmers said, sir, we don't want this money.  It's a subsidy.  We don't want it.  I said, no, it's not a subsidy.  You're being targeted unfairly.  They said, no, sir, it's a subsidy.  This is true.  I had 35 farmers in the oval office.  Incredible people.  They didn't want it.  They said, sir, just give us a level field.  So now I gave them a field that's more than level.  It's level like this.  Nice and easy.  Nice and easy.  But the farmers, I call them the great patriots the farmers.  I never lost them.  They always said, yeah, I'm in trouble.  I got a problem.  But this should have been done many, many years ago by other presidents and other leaders.  And we lose for many years $500 billion a year with China and many other countries we lose billions.  We lose with everybody.  But that's all changing now.  But we lose 500 billion, not million.  500 millions is a lot, right? We lose 500 billion.  And you know what? It's a disgrace that that was allowed to go on for 25 years.  It was a disgrace.  Disgrace.  But now we're taking in billions of dollars.  They've had the worst year they've had in 27 years and we're having the best year we've ever had.  So that's good.  That's good.  So Biden flew with Hunter on Air Force 2.  They flew to China.  Hunter walked out of the plane, had a quick meeting, walked away with one and a half billion dollars.  These characters back there said, oh, that's okay.  There's no problem.  Can you imagine if Don or Eric Trump or Ivanka Trump, who's here someplace … right here.  And by the way, our great First Lady is home watching this.  She said, this is the most exciting thing I've seen in a long time.  You're a great First Lady.  Doing a great job.  She's doing a great job.  We're doing a great job.  The whole country now is doing a great job.  So Biden takes 1,500,000,000 and he goes on and he allows China to rip us off.  Remember he said a year ago? No, no, China's good.  They've done nothing wrong.  They are wonderful people.  They are all wonderful people.  I don't blame China, by the way.  I blame our leaders for allowing this horrible, you know what and pillage.  It's the R word.  You know what and pillage.  You know what word I'm talking about, right? I don't want to use it because they'll say it's a horrible word that Trump used.  So the Biden's got rich while America got robbed.  Tonight we forcefully condemn the blatant corruption of the Democrat party and nobody ever pays the price with the Democrats.  They're so deep seeded.  They never pay the price.  They never pay.  But maybe soon that will start.  You know, we've had a lot of, we've had a lot of Obama people and Clinton people and some, to be honest with you, we've had some pretty bad Republicans down deep that didn't exactly love us.  But slowly they're getting out.  They have all sorts of protections.  He says get rid of them.  Yeah, we're trying.  Get rid of them.  But their partner in the whole thing is the fake news media.  That's the problem.  Because the Democrats and the fake news media, it's a partnership.  Remember that.  And you see it all the time, and I've never seen it to this extent.  You know, when I won in the primaries and then I won the election, I was treated horribly by the media, horribly.  And then when I won the election, we had the greatest night, one of the highest rated nights in the history of television all over the world.  And I won.  And I said, oh, the great thing.  I said to Ivanka, I said to the first lady, I said to anybody that would listen, I said, listen, this is so great.  Finally, finally, we, all of us, we're going to be respected by the media.  And you know what happened? They got worse.  They're worse now than they ever have been.  They're crooked as hell.  They're worse now than they've ever been.  They're crooked.  The only message these radicals, and they are radical lefties, will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd, 2020.  Save that date.  With your help, we will win back the house.  We … With your help, we will win back the House, we will keep the Senate, and we will keep the White House in numbers like they haven't seen in a long, long time.  Joining us tonight are many terrific Republican leaders, and they are terrific.  And frankly, if they're not, I'm not going to introduce them, okay? But we have some great leaders, and you have great leaders in Texas.  Great leaders, and they love Texas.  A friend of mine, a guy that a lot of people weren't so sure, we had this unbelievable relationship.  In fact, when Ted Cruz held a rally in Washington, he said, "Could you come to my rally?" And everybody thought, these people thought that was strange.  They said to me, "Well, when is the fighting between these two?" Because we really like each other.  "When's the fighting going to start?" Right, Ted? They said, "When is the fighting going to start? And I said, "Don't worry, it'll start.  And when it does, it's going to be vicious. " And it was vicious, and now we love each other again.  He's great.  Ted Cruz.  And he had a great victory against a man that spent almost $100 million dollars.  That's a lot of money.  Spent almost $100 million, but that was a great victory.  Thank you, Ted.  Another man who's currently running against somebody.  I kept thinking maybe Beto will jump in because he's at zero right now.  We hope he's going to jump in.  Remember, no religion and no guns.  I think that's not good.  Oh, and I think he's like pretty light on oil production too.  But a man and John, I have no idea who you're running against, but nobody's going to be able to beat John Cornyn.  He's a good man, you're good man, thank you, John.  And we have a lot of Congress people here.  We have a woman who's fantastic, who has been a fan of ours right from the beginning, Kay Granger.  Thank you, Kay.  We have a man who's smart as hell and he is tough and he is mean and nasty, but he loves this state and he's only mean and nasty because he wants to defend you and me and all of the horrible things that we all go through, Louie Gohmert.  Louie, he's a great guy, been a great friend of mine.  I'll tell you once we got him on board, he wouldn't leave us no matter what.  And he had Mueller and everybody figured out long before anybody else had it figured out, right, Louie? A person who's been an incredible ally, again, loves your state, Randy Weber.  Thank you Randy.  Great job, thank you.  One of the best lawyers you'll ever find.  He's slick, he's smooth, but boy he's loyal, he's talented and he's got them all buffaloed because they're not as good as him, John Ratliff, thank you John.  A man I saw on television last night defending me, brilliantly defending me.  I actually don't like doing this usually, but I tweeted out, I said, "Thank you very much Brian Babin.  That was a great defense, I appreciate it. " Thank you Brian, that was great last night.  See I put a tweet out because it's easier than making a phone call and talking for a half hour, thanks Brian.  I just said thanks.  And you know what, he'd rather have that too actually, right? And Lance Gooden, special person, Lance Gooden,, thank you Lance.  Thank you, Lance.  And Lance was one of 60 people that stuck in there, he was unbelievable.  And Ron Wright, thank you, Ron.  Great job.  Great job.  These are great people.  These are great people along with Republican party chairs and all of these total winners.  Here's one, Ronna McDaniel, I'll tell you what, you know, Ronna was the head of Michigan.  Michigan hadn't been won by a Republican for decades and it was tough.  They all said you couldn't win Michigan.  I said, "Why? We're getting these massive crowds, why"? And she was in charge of Michigan and I said, "I want you to do me a favor.  Find out who this woman is.  She's driving me crazy.  She calls me, Just one more trip, sir, one more trip.  Who is she? Who is she?" And it was Ronna and we won the State of Michigan, we won.  And when it came time, when it came time to picking somebody to head the RNC, Republican National Committee, I said, "What about that woman that drove me crazy from Michigan?" And it was Ronna and she's done a fantastic job.  Thank you, thank you, Ronna.  Thank you, she's fantastic.  And a great governor from your state, he's a great, great man and a friend of mine.  And together with your Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick.  Well you had a hurricane, two years ago now.  They still keep calling me for money.  "Sir, could you give us another?" When the governor called up, Dan was there, "Thank you for being so generous to Texas, sir, the hurricane. " It was a big one, it was a bad one.  A lot of water dump.  I think the biggest dump of water, remember kept going in and out, in and out.  Our Coast Guard saved 16,000 lives.  But it kept going in and out, water, water.  And finally I get a call.  I paid billions and billions of dollars to the state.  Like numbers, my people are driving me crazy.  I get a call from the governor and Dan is there.  Where's Dan? Is he here? Where's Dan? Dan, Dan Patrick.  And the two of them call me.  And then I had Ted Cruz on my back and I had John Cornyn on my back and I had the Congressman calling and it was brutal, it wasn't even fair.  And they said, "Sir, thank you for being so generous on the hurricane. " They made a fortune.  You made a fortune on the hurricane.  "Thank you for being so generous, sir.  Sir, we want one more small request, just a small, it's not much and we appreciate your listening to us.  We want to build a dam in the ocean so that if we ever have another hurricane, sir, the water won't be able to come into Houston and all of the areas that have came into, sir, do you think we could do it? I said, "How much? It's only $10 billion.  $10 billion!" Right Ted, right? $10 billion they wanted, 10.  And you know the way they sell it and it's so good they're salesman, they're incredible salesman.  They say it's only 10 billion.  I'm supposed to be happy.  Oh, let's see, could we give Texas an extra 10 billion for some, crazy thing that may work and it may not, right? No, they're great people.  They love your state.  RNC, co-chairman, Tommy Hicks, a real friend of ours.  Thank you, Tommy.  And our great campaign manager, the most sophisticated man with a computer you've ever seen.  Remember they used to say with Hillary, her campaign is so sophisticated.  Then after she lost, they said, Trump's campaign was so sophisticated.  And remember she spent like six times more on this stuff than we did.  You know the old days, my father taught me, if you can spend less, that's a good thing not a bad thing, right? My father said, if you can spend less.  So we spent much less then Hillary, crooked Hillary, crooked Hillary.  Where are those emails, Hillary? They may find those 33,000 emails.  They're looking, they may find those deleted emails.  They may find them.  Remember the emails, 33,000 emails covering her gym and her daughter's wedding, 33,000 that's a lot of emails for a wedding and working out.  But Brad Parscale did a great job.  Thank you, Brad, thank you.  Thank you, Brad.  And Secretary of Commerce, one of the legends of Wall Street, he was really like amazing and he is doing an incredible job, Wilbur Ross.  Thank you, Wilbur.  Smart guy.  And a friend of mine, he's another one.  He was so tough.  He was nasty, man.  Boy, he hit me during the campaign.  I said, "That guy's ruthless. " And when it was sort of over, there was nobody more gracious and I called him, I made him Secretary of Energy, he's done a phenomenal job.  And Rick Perry couldn't have done a better job, truly, truly.  And he's going to be leaving at the end of the year and probably coming back here.  Whatever he does it's going to be successful.  But he spent three years with us and I want to thank you, Rick, what a job you done, thank you.  What a job he's done.  He was also a great governor of Texas that you know.  In everything we do, we're fighting for the faithful citizens of this country.  This includes putting a stop to the catastrophic era of endless wars.  Endless wars, they don't stop.  They don't stop.  They go on forever.  We become policemen.  We end up becoming police, were policing these countries.  That's not what it's about.  We've spent eight trillion dollars in the Middle East.  Thousands of American soldiers have lost their lives.  Tens of thousands more have been severely wounded, and in all fairness, the other side has lost millions of people.  Millions, millions of people, think of it.  These wars brought mass chaos, instability, destruction and death.  Today we choose a different path.  We had tremendous success today.  I don't know if you've seen it.  We built in the last three years, we built the strongest military by far.  And I told this story, I was embarrassed to tell it, but now I'll tell, when I first got in, a general told me we could've had a conflict with someone said, "Sir, we don't have ammunition. " And I said, "I never want to hear a president … I just never want to hear somebody have that statement made to them again as President of the United States, we don't have ammunition. " Think of how bad.  Now we have so much ammunition we don't know what to do with it.  And as you all know, I guess you've been watching today.  I sent Vice President Pence and Secretary of State Pompeo to lead an American delegation to meet with President Erdogan of Turkey.  They got there today and it did work.  Without spilling a drop of American blood, not one drop of American blood.  We've all agreed on a pause or a ceasefire in the border region of Syria and it was unconventional what I did.  I said, "They're going to have to fight a little while.  Sometimes you have to let them fight a little while.  Then people find out how tough the fighting is. " These guys know right up here, these guys know, right? Sometimes you have to let them fight like two kids in a lot.  You got to let them fight and then you pull them apart.  But it was unconventional, but they fought for a few days and it was pretty vicious.  And the Kurds, who are our friends and Turkey's our friend.  But they fought, it was tougher.  I mean it was nasty and you couldn't make a deal for 15, think of it, for 15 years, 20 years, they couldn't make a deal.  The Kurds didn't want to move.  Turkey didn't want to budge, and Turkey was having a lot of bad things happen from this region.  In all fairness to Turkey, they were having a lot of bad, but they didn't … Now all of a sudden they're fighting and it's not fun having bullets going all over the place.  And we went there and we said, we want to pause, and the Kurds have been terrific.  They're going to move back a little bit.  We're going to keep ISIS all nice and locked up, okay.  We're going to find more of them.  And Turkey's all set and President Erdogan one was great and we're going to take the worst sanctions and tariffs and everything that I put on the country, we put the worst, I mean, I don't think they could have economically survived, but that doesn't matter.  President Erdogan was a gentleman.  He understood it, but without a little tough love.  You know what tough love is, right? Without a little tough love, they would have never made this deal.  President Obama lost a million people in the area, a million people, a million people.  So now we're doing a five day period, we're going to see if we can get it all finalized and I think it will be, I think it will be.  So Turkey's going to be happy.  The Kurds are going to be happy, ISIS is going to be unhappy.  We'll deal with whoever we have to deal with, but we'll get it done.  And it's a great tribute to a lot of very talented people and thank you to Vice President Pence and thank you to Mike Pompeo.  Good job, good job and they're traveling back to our country by night.  They're traveling back and they'll be back soon and we'll have a big conference on it.  But it was a terrific thing and we've taken care of a lot of religious persecution.  We added that in.  A lot of things are in that agreement that nobody ever thought possible.  So we have to fundamentally change our approach to Homeland Security as an example.  In that example, nobody would've ever done that.  You have to be a little bit different to do it that way.  I took a lot of heat, even from some of our Congressman, even from some of our Senators, but now they're all happy and I'm happy with them.  I'm happy with them.  Now, I don't know what about the Democrats? The Democrats will say, "Oh, what a terrible …" Anything we do the Democrats will criticize.  If I said, like on the China deal, "We get Beijing for one dollar. " They would say, "What a terrible deal. " It just doesn't work with them.  You know the wall.  We spend so much time with them on the wall and I realized about two weeks ago, all I had to do is say, "We will never build a wall. " And they would have come through and they said, "We demand that you build it. " It would have been so much easier, right.  Would have been so much easier, Ted, would've been so much easier.  American combat troops should not be at the center of ancient sectarian conflicts all over the world.  Bring our soldiers back home.  Bring our soldiers back home.  The same people pushing us to fight endless wars overseas want us to open our borders to mass migration from these war torn and terror afflicted regions.  Their policies would import terrorism right onto our shores with American issued visas.  Oh, isn't that wonderful? And by the way, the Democrats want open borders.  They want everybody to flow in.  They want those caravans to flow in, the caravans.  And they wouldn't get rid of the loopholes.  But you know what? Mexico's been great.  Mexico today had 27,000 soldiers on our border and we've stopped this horrible migration of people.  And many of them are bad people.  You know when countries send them up, they're not sending their finest, okay, use your heads, they're not sending their finest.  You've got to see some of the people.  But now we send them back.  And by the way, ICE is fantastic.  They've taken out thousands and thousands of MS-13 killers.  They've taken thousands of killers and brought them back.  And now we've made deals with Guatemala and Honduras and El Salvador and Mexico.  But we've made deals now where we can bring back, there are 45,000 people waiting in Mexico.  But it's going to be very tough for these people ever to get back.  When did you ever hear that? Used to have no people waiting in Mexico.  They just flooded.  Our borders are getting strong.  When the wall is complete, there'll be as strong as any borders anywhere in the world.  My administration believes in a simple principle, the best way to keep foreign terrorists out of America is deny them, just deny them admission in the first place.  It's really pretty simple.  And that is why I have imposed, and we had passed and we won at the United States Supreme Court, a travel ban on some of the world's most dangerous countries and places.  But if Democrats seize power, they would throw the floodgates wide open, wide open.  We would have people coming into our country, look at what's going on in California and the people of California don't want it, they say, come into California.  We'll give you free healthcare, free education.  Why wouldn't … I may even move to California if they keep going.  No, but all it does is it brings everybody in.  What's wrong with these people? We're rebuilding our military stronger than ever before and we are not going to deplete it again on stupid, senseless, endless wars.  We've invested more than two and a half trillion dollars restoring our armed forces and all of it was built in the USA and that includes approving the construction of almost 200 F-35 fighters, stealth, stealth.  And many of them are built right here, right here.  You know that right, in Fort Worth.  As we restore our security, we're also restoring our prosperity.  America is winning again and America is respected again.  And by the way, I have to say this, so outside they have close to 30,000 people.  And I wonder if I could ask the Fire Marshal, fill up this little area, let them in, it would be so nice.  You know they have a certain max, we broke the record tonight.  Good place.  Last month, unemployment reached its lowest level in 51 years.  Seven million Americans have been lifted off food stamps since the election.  What a great … One point three million children have been lifted out of poverty, think of that.  And African American, Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels in history.  Our great Hispanic American population has reached a poverty level, which is a all time low in U. S.  history.  And after years of stagnation, wages for Hispanic Americans are rising fast, up nearly eight percent since my election and everybody in the fake news would have said that's absolutely impossible.  Medium income, think of this, median income for Hispanic Americans has surpassed $50,000 a year for the first time ever.  With Republicans in Congress, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reform by far in American history.  By the way, the Democrats want to raise your taxes, you know.  I don't mean a little bit.  I don't mean a little bit.  I mean like double them up, triple them up and it's still won't pay for the nonsense they want.  We eliminated a record number of regulations and we ended the war on a thing called American energy, which is very good for Texas.  Since my election, natural gas production in Texas has increased 35% and oil production has increased by 60%, six oh.  And the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world, world.  Yet every major Democrat running for president wants to abolish all production of oil and natural gas.  I think they want to go to windmills, windmills, you know.  "Darling, I want to watch Trump speak tonight.  We can't darling, the wind isn't blowing. " They want windmills.  In other words, they want to annihilate your Texas economy.  Can you imagine? No more oil, no more natural.  So here we have a few people, right? No guns, no religion, no oil, no natural gas.  Abraham Lincoln could not win Texas under those circumstances.  Couldn't do it, couldn't do it, Ted.  Couldn't do it, Louis.  Abraham Lincoln, Honest Abe, couldn't do it, Louie, right? Remember I used to say I can be more presidential, look.  I've always said I can be more presidential than any president in history except for Honest Abe Lincoln when he's wearing the hat.  That's tough, that's tough.  That's a tough one to beat.  No, it's much easier, being presidential is easy.  All you have to do is act like a stiff, look.  Remember the last election, they said these phonies in the back, they said, Texas is in play.  They said you'd toss in play too.  And I came here, we had rallies like this.  Thousands of people outside that couldn't get in.  And I said, "Why is Texas in play?" They say because it's voting, it's suppression.  They try and get your hopes down.  They're suppressed.  This is just like fake news.  But they said Texas, they said Texas is in play.  "Ladies and gentlemen, Texas is play.  This is CNN, Texas is in play.  President Trump …" And I had guys on from Texas and they're wearing cowboy hats.  Sid and a lot of guys.  They go, "I don't know about you, but I know something about Texas and Donald Trump is not going to lose Texas.  I can tell you that and Texas is not in play. " 00 o'clock and usually they have to take hours and sometimes at least even if it's big, they take a half an hour.  The Texas polls have closed and usually if it's close, it takes hours.  And if it's not even just like so close, it takes a long time.  So they go, "Ladies and gentlemen, the polls have closed in the State of Texas.  Donald Trump has won the State of Texas.  Right, Donald Trump. " And we won by a lot.  We won by a lot.  And we won Florida and we won South Carolina and we won Georgia and we won North Carolina and we won Pennsylvania.  We won a lot.  Remember these phony people, there is no way to get to 270 you had to get to … So I kept going to Maine.  I love Maine, but Maine too, you get one.  It's cut in half.  Maine too you get one.  I went there four or five times because … They got me up, the phonies, they got me up to 269, couldn't get to 270 so I went … I won, by the way, I won Maine too.  I got one.  But I went there and I went there a lot.  That's the beautiful thing about the electoral college, you go everywhere.  You don't just spend the three … winning the popular vote would be much easier.  I'd rather have that.  I'd go to four states and relax.  I went to 21 States.  I used to be a believer in the other, but I think winning … It's like you're a track star.  You're working out for the a hundred yard dash or the mile, it's a different form of training.  It's a different form.  But we did great.  They said he cannot get to 270 and they were right.  We got to 306.  After decades of economic surrender, I have taken historic action to confront China's- … have taken historic action to confront China's rampant trading abuses, and we've made great progress.  And our relationship with China is fantastic, and great things are happening.  You watch.  They get it now.  They get it.  And a lot of good things are happening.  We're replacing NAFTA with disastrous, I mean, it's been, to me, probably … I used to call it the worst trade deal in history.  I think the World Trade has been … WTO, what a real beauty, the World Trade Organization.  That's a real beauty.  They consider China a developing nation.  And because you're a developing nation, Ted, right? They consider China to be a developing nation, and because they're developing, they get tremendous … And we wrote them letters.  We don't consider them to be a developing nation.  We don't consider India to be a develop… because they're ripping us off.  And we didn't win any cases at the WTO, and now we just won $7. 5 billion of countries that were taking taking advantage of us.  And we've won a lot of cases lately.  We didn't win anything for years practically.  Now we've won a lot of cases.  You know why? Because they know I'll leave if they don't treat us fairly.  They know it.  And then the piggy bank is gone where they all rob from.  We're replacing the NAFTA disaster.  And we have to get this crazy Nancy Pelosi to put this thing up for a vote.  We have to get her.  And the USMCA is a giant victory for Texas farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, workers, and oil.  The Democrats should pass it, overwhelmingly.  They will.  But Nancy has to put it up for a vote.  Do-nothing Democrats.  They're do-nothing.  Nowhere is the Democrat betrayal of our nation more dramatic than on immigration.  In recent debates, did you see these debates? Do you believe what I'm competing with? I don't know, when I had to compete with Ted Cruz, that was brutal.  He was the national debate chamption, a story I've never told.  I never did that before, right? I ran for office.  All of a sudden, I'm supposed to be debating tomorrow night.   "Who are these people?" The hell, I don't know all of them.  I know a lot of them.  I contributed to a lot of them.  They used to treat me very nice when I contributed to them.  Not so nice when I was their opponent, that changed a lot.   "Let me see, I want to see, who are these people?" I'm going to a debate.  I never debated.  My whole life has been a debate, but I never debated with a podium, and this, and that.   "Who are they?" And we had 17 people, plus me.  We had 18.  It was actually not 17, it was 18.  Remember Gilmore? Nobody remembers him.  But we had 18 people.  I said, "Who are these people? Are they any good at debating?" And I hired a debate coach, and he lasted for about 10 minutes.   "This guy knows less than I do. " He didn't know anything.  He didn't know anything, it's true.  He said, "Never ever interrupt while they're speaking. "  "Okay, coach.  Put me in, coach. " And after a couple of those statements, I mean … I mean, you can't beat Ted Cruz if you don't interrupt him.  It's impossible.  But my first … It's true.  So I see, "Let me see the cards.  Let me see the whole thing.  I want to see it.  I need help.  I'm going to be debating in front of millions of people. " And everyone's saying, "Do you think Trump's going to be able to debate professionally?"  "Let me see these cards. "  "You know, he was president of his class.  One guy was a good debater in college.  He was this, he was okay. " But they give me the first card, Ted Cruz, and it says, "National debate champion from Princeton. " Is that right? And then, "National debate champion from Harvard. "  "My potential first lady, I got a problem. "  "Some of these guys are okay.  They were only president of the class. " Almost all of them ran for president of the class.  I never did.  I liked playing baseball better.  But I said, "Melania," and I called Ivanka, I called my kids, I said, "I got a problem.  Ted Cruz was the national debate, he was the number one guy in college.  He was the number one guy in law school.  How the hell do I beat a guy that's that good at debating?" But we came out okay, Ted.  And Ted, Ted was tough.  Smart as hell and tough.  Tough.  Good man.  But it is true.  The first card I looked at, seriously, it was Ted Cruz.  And he was literally, I mean, national debate, he was the best in all of college and in law school.  And he's a talented guy.  No, he says.  I don't think so.  Every single Democrat candidate for president raised their hand in favor of giving free healthcare to all illegal aliens.  They want to give more to illegal aliens than they give to American citizens.  You see that.  As president, I will never allow the Democrats to take away your healthcare dollars and give them to people that are in our country illegally.  Can't do it.  In fact, I just signed an executive action to protect American healthcare benefits for all American citizens.  Among those hardest hit by illegal immigration are millions of legal immigrants right here in Texas, including millions of patriotic, hardworking Mexican-Americans who play by the rules, pay their taxes, follow our laws, and strengthen our communities.  Whether you are a first-generation or tenth-generation, and every American citizen, and you do, you've been treated so badly.  But you're not being treated badly anymore.  You know? We got rid of the individual mandate from crazy Obamacare.  Every American citizen deserves a government that defends your jobs, your safety, your family, your borders, and is always loyal to you for a change.  We're loyal to you.  My administration has reduced illegal border crossings by over 60% since May.  And that's with no help from the Democrats.  They won't close up the loopholes.  They won't close the loopholes, and we could do it in 15 minutes.  And we're building the wall and we're doing all of these things, but the Democrats won't close up the loopholes.  You know what the loopholes are, right? How about catch and release? You catch them.  You say, "Hello, darling, how are you? Could you please give us your name and phone number?" They don't have a phone.  "Could you give us your address?" They don't want to have That have a phone? Could you give us your address? They don't want to have an address that's in Honduras.  "Could you please give us your address and your name?" They can't.  They say, "That's okay.  We catch and we release," and they go into our country.  And then we are getting them out of the country.  And you know what? Some are very good people.  Some are unbelievably dangerous and bad people.  And we're focusing on the bad and they're getting the hell out of our country.  Okay? While we're fighting for shared priorities, the American people, the Democrat Party has never been farther outside of the mainstream.  They've gone nuts.  Every Democrat running for president is pushing a healthcare agenda that would utterly eviscerate Medicare.  My administration will always protect Medicare for our beloved seniors.  And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.  Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in over 51 years.  People don't talk about it.  The press will not talk about it.  We have news conferences.  We tell them this, they will not put it in the press.  You have no idea how dishonest the media is.  You have no idea.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb right up until the moment of birth.  And that crackpot governor from Virginia executes the baby after birth.  You saw that, right? After birth.  You remember that one from last year.  That's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of crazy politicians, high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption.  They're corrupt, like Schiff is corrupt.  He's corrupt.  The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it's the party of the American Dream.  It's also the party of Honest Abe Lincoln.  We forget that.  We got to use that more often.  Don't you think? Honest Abe.  I liked Honest Abe.  We've confirmed … He says "Honest Donald. " Thank you.  Explain that to them.  You're right.  We've confirmed 152 federal judges to apply the law as written, including two Supreme Court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  When I got into office, they say the most important thing a president can do, I actually think it's defense, but they say is the appointment of federal judges.  So when I got in, always, when you get in, there are none.  " How many do you have?" "I have none.  None. " So I got to, I say, "How many federal judges do I have?" "Sir, you have 142 federal judges. " "No, you don't understand the question. " That's impossible.  That would mean that President Obama didn't appoint 142 judges.  You get none.  Or you're doing a bad job as president because you're representing a different philosophy.  Very different.   "Actually, sir, the number is 142.  We were right the first time. "  "Obama was … He's such a wonderful president. " How are you a wonderful president when the most important thing you can do, you handed over to the Republicans.  142.  How is that good? I mean, how is that good? If I were a Democrat, I wouldn't be too happy about that number.  And we'll have a record number of judges by the time our term is over in 16 years, maybe 20.  I'm only kidding.  I'm only kidding because every time I do that, they say, "See, he's assuming control. " We have this crazy guy on television.  And he goes, "You know …" he's talking to a guest, he goes, "You know he's going to win, don't you? You know he's going to win. " I mean, we've done a good job.  He should be happy.  But he said, " Our military, our schools, our this, everything. " He says, "You know he's going to win. " And the guest goes, "Well, no, we're going to fight.  We're going to fight. " "No, no, he's going to win.  And you know he's never leaving.  You know that, don't you? He's never leaving.  He's never going to leave. " And I thought this wacko was kidding.  He's a comedian.  I thought he was kidding.  He's serious.  He really believes that.  We passed, for the veterans, VA Choice and VA Accountability on behalf of those great people.  They've been trying to pass it for almost 50 years.  They couldn't get it done.  But those guys right there, and me, we got it done.  And to protect American security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  And we also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  You've seen it many times.  "Oh, I'm so sorry. " Now you have a president who's standing up for America and standing up for your great state of Texas.   about you.  I'm doing this for you.  You know, we had, in 2016, I really believe it was maybe the greatest election.  I guess George Washington was good, right? But that was easy.  And by the way, he did even better percentage-wise in judges than I did.  He had 100%.  but we could have 50%.  That's not bad.  And I had many more than he had.  So I guess you got to give George Washington, what do you think, Ted, you got to give him something? I'd say Honest Abe, that was a pretty good election, right? Andrew Jackson, they say ours topped Andrew Jackson.  But Andrew Jackson was a good election.  But we had among the greatest elections of all time.  But we have to now cement that election.  We got to cement it.  And once we do, it's going to be very hard to take this beautiful experiment apart.  That'll be very hard.  Because it's all about your family.  It's all about your future.  And it's all about the future fate of our great country.  So important.  With your help, we will lift millions of more citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration.  And by the way, thank you, Robert Jeffress, for being here, wherever you may be in this massive … Wherever you are, Robert.  Where is he? He got up, he started saying, "He may not be the greatest person. " I said … This is like four years ago, I see this guy, what a mouthpiece, this guy.  And he's a man of God.   "He may not be the greatest, he may not be the most perfect Christian.  He may not know the Bible as well as some of us, but he's a leader.  And I love Donald Trump. "  "Who is that guy? I love that guy. " Robert Jeffress.  Wherever.  He's a great guy.  Got a big, big group of people on Sunday mornings too, I can tell you.  We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful words, that beautiful phrase, I love it, "Made in the USA. " We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in less than 10 years.  We're doing that.  Who would have believed we could do that? We're doing that.  And the previous administration spent no money on that, and we're spending a lot.  But think of that.  Who would have thought that we're going to end, within 10 years, the AIDS epidemic in our country? Who would have thought we've advanced that far? We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that unite people all across our land and throughout the great state of Texas.  This is a great state.  We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  Thank you.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true bedrocks of our society.  We believe in the creeds of self-reliance, personal responsibility, and American independence.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  Loyal citizens like you helped build this country.  And together, we are taking back this country, our country.  We love our country.  We're returning power to you, the American people.  That's what we've done.  From Dallas to El Paso, from Houston to Austin, from the Red River to the Rio Grande, this state was settled by some of the toughest men and strongest women ever to walk on the face of the earth.  Texas.  This is the state where William Travis, James Bowie and Davy Crockett made their last stand at the Alamo.  This is the state where a small band of patriots at the Battle of Gonzalez, armed with a single canon, stared down a foreign army and declared, " Come and take it. "  they loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God.  These courageous Texas patriots did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy, demolish our liberty, and destroy our proud American heritage.  We will never, ever allow that to happen.  With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting.  And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  And together we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you, Texas.  Thank you.  .  Thank you. 



I worked so hard for this state.  I worked so hard.  You just got two of the greatest trade deals, and add Japan to it, by the way.  Let's make it three, 40 billion from Japan, USMCA, all done.  China, all done for the farmers.  It's done, that I can tell you.  You're going to have to get bigger tractors and a hell of a lot more land.  You've got to produce a lot of product.  I don't know if you can, but, hello Des Moines.  It's great to be with you.  I'm thrilled to be back in American heartland with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots.  Great people.  This November we're going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats that are right down the street.  I mean, I don't even know.  I just saw, New York Times, can you believe? Failing New York Times… When we leave in 10, 14, 18, 22 years from now, the New York Times will be out of business and so will a lot of others.  But, did you see they did a New York Times poll, I think, and Sienna, Sienna, New York Times of Iowa, and they have me pitted against every one of the Socialists, and we're winning by a lot.  Everyone.  We're beating them all.  We're beating them all.  We're beating them all.  We're beating them like they haven't been beaten before.  You know all the noises about their crazy debates, nobody's watching their debates, but it's all about their debates.  They don't care about the farmer.  Everything out here, they love Trump, and you should love Trump with what I've done.  So, we're going to win the great state of Iowa and it's going to be a historic landslide.  If we don't win, your farms are going to hell.  I can tell you right now.  Sell, sell, they'll be saying "Sell. " No, we love the farmers, and we love the ranchers, and we love the manufacturers, frankly.  You got plenty of that too in this state.  The great state, and you have a great governor, by the way.  You have a great governor.  But every day we're achieving extraordinary victories for the citizens of the Hawkeye State.  The Iowa unemployment rate has reached an all time low in history.  That's not bad.  That's not bad.  Oh, let's vote for Pocahontas.  Let's vote for Bernie.  Let's vote for sleepy Joe.  He's falling asleep.  Joe, Joe, Joe.  He always gets the name wrong.  How many times has he missed it? He's in Iowa.  He says, "Great to be in the great state of Ohio. " They say, "Joe, you're in Iowa. " You can't do that.  No matter how great you speak.  If you're Winston Churchill, if you make that mistake at the beginning of your speech, it's over.  You might as well just wrap it up.  There's the fake news.  They would just absolutely destroy you.  They would absolutely destroy you.  You can't do that.  You can't do that, Joe, sleepy Joe, but you have these guys.  You have these people.  How about Buttigieg? Buttigieg.  They call him mayor Pete.  You know why? Because nobody can pronounce his name.  Nobody has any idea.  Buttigieg.  They say, "Say edge edge. " He presides over a city that's failed.  It's doing so badly, in a state that's having the greatest year they've ever had, and they have a great governor also, and they had a great governor.  You just heard from him, right? The great state of Indiana, so I don't see that one.  Go down the line.  We have some people.  Let's not talk about them.  What happened to mini Mike? Where is he? He's not running.  He's skipping four or five states.  Mini Mike.  I've had him up to here.  More people are working right now in Iowa than ever before.  Now think of it.  Think of it.  Yesterday we replaced a NAFTA disaster with the incredible brand new U. S.  Mexico Canada Agreement. 