 You know Iowa, every week that they campaign our numbers go up.  They're winning Iowa.  We gave them ethanol, which is very important.  A lot of things for Iowa, but every week we seem to be going up in Iowa because they're campaigning in Iowa.  Wherever they go, our numbers go up.  Somebody's going to have to explain that one to me someday, but we like it.  A man who's a friend of mine who was the greatest mayor in the history of New York City.  Stand up, Rudy.  Stand up, dirty political establishment hates more than a president that they cannot intimidate, own and control.  They're trying to stop me because they know that I don't answer to them, I answer to you.  It's true.  I never say this.  I don't think I've ever said it in a speech, but they'll find out if I did.  They'll give me Pinocchios, he said it before, but I don't know if I ever said this before.  But I make, as president, about $450,000.  I give it away.  I don't care.  I don't want the historic shipyard in Marinette.  How about that? I was there two months ago.  Marinette.  That's a great company, but it was having a hard time.  And now, they're building, what was that, like $6 billion worth of ships? And their beauties.  They've started already, and we worked very hard on that.  And we had a lot of help from your congressman on that one, because a lot of people wanted that contract.  But we got it for Wisconsin, remember that.  We launched the first new branch of the United States Armed had a big breakout in Europe and they keep saying in the fake news, they keep saying about, "Oh, Europe, Europe, Europe. " Well, we're doing better than Europe.  I hate to see what happened, and it had a big impact on the market today because it was a bad thing.  But they had a big hit and they'll take care of it.  They know how to do it.  They'll take care of it.  We're working very closely with Europe and other countries, including on the vaccine.  We have three vaccines right now that I'm getting ready to say something about fake news, et cetera, et cetera, the lights start going off so I'm not going to … One just went off I think.  You can tell by the lights, they got that little beautiful red light.  You see it? But I won't say anything bad about them but they are fakers and do you remember when they … Remember when they were saying that the polls are terrible.  Actually these polls are very good compared … That was so bad it was like why did anybody vote.  They're called to give School Choice to every child in America who needs it.  It's a great plan.  To give former prisoners a second chance at life we passed criminal justice reform.  Think of that.  Think of that.  We had a lot of great Conservatives who wanted it, we had Liberals who wanted it.  They couldn't get it passed.  President Obama couldn't even come close.  He didn't try too hard.  He talked like, "Oh I'll try. " To uphold the rule of law we have confirmed 191 federal judges, a record, who will than we needed.  You could do with one less pencil.  Following decades of outsourcing and offshoring, our jobs and factories are coming back home where they belong.  If foreign companies do not want to pay our tariffs, there is one very simple solution.  Come and make your product in America.  Come and make your product in New Mexico.  And by the way, I'm just seeing this great group of people, this spirit, is there any place in the world that's more fun or more exciting than a Trump rally? Really? Is there anything? When into Rutherford County? I don't think so.  But, your whole state… Honestly… Can I be honest? It's crazy what's happening.  This whole thing with sanctuary cities, and you go to California, which is so many sanctuary cities, they don't know what's happening out there.  You have people that want to get ride of those sanctuary cities, they just aren't able to do it with the people that get elected.  A lot of illegal voting going on out there, by the way, a lot of illegal voting.  In August, McCready said it was "the right call It's crazy.  The Biden agenda would collapse our economy and destroy your country.  It would destroy your Social Security and protections for preexisting conditions, it will.  He's going to drain your Medicare by giving away our healthcare to illegal immigrants.  And I will tell you this, you're going to have socialized medicine.  That's as sure as you're there.  And Obama lied 28 times when he said you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan.  It was a lie.  Said it 28 times, that we have, but it was a lie. military.  We want to cut budgets, but this is beyond budget.  I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided, disgusting Iran nuclear deal, and Iran is a different country today than it was.  My administration proudly recognized the true capitol of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  That was some day, they all said, "Many, many presidents have said, "We're going to do it. " Then they never did. " I know why, because the pressure on them was enormous not to do it.  And then on top of it, a couple Trump, I think they do.  Now I see them, they're great.  Great ladies, you're great.  It's interesting with women, so women want to have a strong military protection, they want to have strong borders, they want to have strong law enforcement, they want to have great education, they want to have low taxes for their family, not high taxes.  They want to have all the things that we talk about, why wouldn't they want Trump more than anybody else? The other side is going to go the opposite.  And they did in the last election, our children, including right here in a very big way.  The great state of Nevada.  Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens.  You know that, you've been complaining about it for a long time.  It's one of the reasons you voted for Trump.  They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border and then they want to give them a lifetime of free welfare, of healthcare, of lots of other things, including education.  All paid for by the taxpayers of the United a popular guy too.  They love him.  Congressman Mike Kelly.  Thank you, Mike.  Come on up here.  Come on up here.  Just come up.  Come on up.  Mike, come up.  Come on.  Guy, come up.  Congressmen Glenn Thompson, Congressman Dan Muser, come on.  And Congressman Scott Perry.  Thank you, Mike.  Hey Mike, good shape.  Come on, get up there.  Oh what a group.  What a group.  Thank you.  He's the real deal.  Conor lamb is just a puppet for Nancy have it.  And the new bulb, I don't know if you see it, it's on there.  It's a hazardous waste.  When that bulb ends, you're supposed to take it to a certain dump and gingerly put it in because it's loaded up with gasses.  That's the new… I said to somebody today in Environmental Protection, how many people do that in the country? Sir, maybe none.  They throw it into the garbage can.  And it's… Wait.  And it was just announced from South Korea, makes a lot of our products, unfortunately, I put with the incredible men and women of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  Through every day and every challenge our hearts speak to the words of the New Hampshire state motto, live free or die.  We are fighting for every American mom and dad who wants to protect this have the greatest equipment in the world.  So you must never forget the 2020 election is all about one thing, you.  It's about you.  It's about your family, it's about your future, and the fate of your beautiful, loving, country, and that's what it is.  We begin our North Carolina campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for our nation's future.  We love our nation, our nation is great today.  It's going to be much greater, every year it's getting better, and better.  We done, but if I didn't terminate it, they got $1. 8 billion in cash, how about that? If I didn't terminate that stupid deal, first of all you wouldn't have the deal in the Middle East and all these countries are joining, it's happening fast.  They want to all join.  We did it, you know, the reverse.  We did it the … Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  You know it's interesting, thank you very much.  I knew I like you.  So the Nobel Peace Prize.  So the funny thing, the DNC is going to take it away from Bernie again.  That's okay, because we don't care who the hell it is.  We're going to win.  We're going to win.  We have to.  Well let me tell you, these crooked politicians, they really took away three years from us.  Because despite the fact and nobody disputes it, that we've done more in three years with the tax cuts and regulation cuts and the military and the choice and everything, we've done more than any administration in history.  We've done more.  But think said, it's only because you guys are coming.  This day was supposed to be for this evening.  And I said, let me get back to Washington, do it early.  So we gave you almost no notice.  You have thousands of people outside, thousands of people inside.  You had to see, we were in Iowa we were in New Hampshire.  You saw what happened in Colorado last.  That was unbelievable.  Every place we go it's the same.  It's been incredible.  I don't know if you saw the pictures last night of unfair.  It really is.  So unfair.  They are among the most dishonest people anywhere on earth.  They're bad people.  Bad people.  Okay, that's enough of that.  I wanted to tell that story.  Does everybody understand that story? The left-wing anarchists tore down a statue of Thomas Jefferson.  Now we're getting into the real stuff.  They decapitated a statue of Christopher Columbus, except in New York when the Italians surrounded it.  They didn't have too much of a chance.  Those Italians, I love the Italians.  They heard they and then you had a senator running on the Republican party who wasn't exactly the greatest for us, but we have done so well here and we're going to have a big win.  I'm hearing we're going to have a great win.  So, I want to thank you, governor.  Also with us, our state representatives, Al Baldasaro and Fred Doucette.  Where are you? Hi.  Hi, Al.  I know these guys so well.  Hey Al, have I taken care of the vets better than you even thought? This guy I met him.  He's it in Minneapolis, we ended it.  In 45 minutes, it was ended.  They went through two weeks.  By the way, we could do it in Portland in half an hour.  It would all be over.  But we have these stupid people that think… How about that poor mayor? Is that pathetic, Wheeler, is that pathetic? They forced him out of his home.  He's now finding a new home, it's so nice.  It's pathetic.  Honestly, it's pathetic.  We could solve that problem in a half an hour, just like we did.  have any soldiers there because we've left.  We won.  We left.  Take a victory, United States.  We left.  Take a victory, take a victory.  Bring our troops back home.  I told this story yesterday, I have to sign letters, it's the hardest thing I have to do.  I sign letters, "Dear Mr.  and Mrs.  Smith from Arkansas.  Dear Mr.  and Mrs.  Jones from Alabama.  Dear Mr.  and Mrs.  Somebody from some great state, I'm sorry to inform you, your son has been killed in  One of the big secrets.  The Democrats won't let us say it.  They want to keep that as quiet as possible.  Look what they gave you, the worst healthcare.  And what we've done, we've gotten rid of things that nobody could believe that was so bad for you.  Everybody was happy with defending your right to keep your doctor and plan of your choice.  We're making healthcare better and much, much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office, we are now offering plans that are know what they said? "Uh, we don't know. " I said, "Here's what I gave away, I gave away nothing. " They said, "Oh, but you agreed to meet. " Oh, I see.  I agreed to meet.  So now they're saying, "I agreed to meet, it was such a big deal. " Instead of being in a war, I think agreeing to meet is okay, right? And we did.  He's a different kind of a guy and he's a smart guy, a very smart guy.  We get along.  Getting along with foreign powers is not now, and everything is negative.  Don't go, don't come, don't do anything.  Today it was like, I've never seen anything like it.  I've never seen anything like it.  You are warriors, thank you.  We had some very bad people outside.  We had some very bad people outside, they were doing bad things.  But I really do, I appreciate it.  We have just a tremendous group of people in Oklahoma.  And I hear, I hear from your two great Senators and your governor that we're doing very well in Oklahoma, that's the a second John James.  What a job you've done.  I have to tell you, he took, I saw this group of people that were running, all nice people, three very rich people and one guy that was John James and I saw them all.  Right? I saw them all and I said, "Wait. " With the wonderful invention of TiVo, one of the greats, you can play it back.  I said, "Who was that?" He said, "I don't know, sir. " I said, "Play it back. " I said, "That man is going to be a on here.  He might even be hotter than Trump right now, I have to say.  Did you see the scene? No, he's all over television.  Even fake news CNN him on.  They say he's a legitimate great hero of World War II.  Erwin Julian.  Irvin, thank you.  And I asked my son Don to get a couple of hats and get some things, and give them to Erwin right now.  And I want to thank you.  Really, that's a great honor.  And thank you for the great job you've done.  I have the greatest in the world.  I have the greatest vice president.  I don't know.  I got the great ones.  I said, "I can't do that. " I picked a great guy.  He's done a fantastic job.  He's been a great vice president.  But it is true.  I could have picked, I'll give you names, but don't want to do that because I don't want to hurt anyone's feelings.  But there are plenty of them out there.  They're mostly out there and I don't want to do that. outside.  Outside is very much different than being inside according to the great doctors, right? But they say it's very much different.  So we're doing these and we're doing the outdoors, we're doing the hangars, but I really believe that these crowds are bigger than they were four years ago.  It's pretty amazing.  It's pretty amazing.  We started off in New Hampshire, we said, "Look, let's have 1,000 people," and they had like five or six show up and they had thousands more.  We're trying to be nice but then eventually we landed … They never mention it.  They never mention it, so maybe they will tonight.  But that's an all-time record.  This is not a brand new place and unfortunately it holds 10,000 people or less.  We set the all-time record.  You know why? Because for games … See the floor packed with people? For games you're playing ice hockey or basketball, so we broke the all-time record in this house.  It's a wonderful house in a wonderful community.  Also in Wildwood, like we're in the middle of winter.  There is nobody in the middle  Enjoy your life.  But you're going to make a lot of money.  You're going to make a lot of money.  Again, we have never had, because they respect us now, they didn't respect us.  We have never had a better relationship with China than we do right now.  It's a beautiful story.  They respect us.  The whole world respects us now.  We're respected again.  America is respected again.  Okay? We're fighting for products made in America and grown right here in this great, great state of Iowa.  To But I was always complaining that our car business is being stolen.  I mean, it's sort of obvious, right? Mexico now has 32% of our car business.  It all left the state of Michigan.  We are bringing it back at a level that nobody's ever seen before, our car business.  But I went to Michigan and my opponent was told that the Republicans, no way you can win Michigan, or Wisconsin, that you just can't.  And we had a campaign manager named Ronna McDaniel, and Ronna wouldn't stop.  "Sir, can you be here next anybody, and they don't want criminals coming in.  They don't want crime coming, they don't want to lose their jobs.  They like the fact that their salaries are going up, their wages are going up, they understand it better.  So Hispanic American, the best unemployment numbers in our history, Asian Americans, the best unemployment numbers in our history.  And likewise women, 74 years.  So I'm sorry women, I let you down.  It's not in our history, but we're going to be there very soon.  We're going to be there very soon.  Women in trouble.  I don't want them to be in trouble, but they're going to wait till after the election.  When I win the election, they're going to come to us and make a deal so fast.  Watch how fast it'll be.  They're dying to make a deal, but they do want to wait.  "Let's wait two months, maybe we'll get lucky.  Maybe we're going to get lucky and Slow Joe gets in and we're going to make a great deal. " No, there'll be in immediately after the election and they'll make a deal, manufacturing jobs after the trade deals that Biden supported.  By the way, I don't know if anybody … But does anybody remember like 12 years ago? Long before I thought about running for president, when I enjoyed my life, I had the greatest life.  "Where would we like to go? Let's go to Monte-Carlo this weekend.  Let's go. " No, I had a great life, but I was honored.  I was doing very well.  I was honored in Michigan.  Does anybody know that? I was given man of the year award by somebody? I how to do this, how to the… you know what? if they don't love it, tell them to leave it.  I don't know.  And I'll watch, I'll go back to the, "Oh sir, that was so controversial, sir. " No, I'm just saying it's their choice.  They can come back when they want, but you know, they don't love our country, I think in some cases they hate our country.  And it's so angry, even yesterday they went on the stage.  I said, "Let me watch this. " And the anger, they were trying to know very well, wages for Hispanic-Americans are rising really fast, up nearly 8% since my election.  Those are unheard of numbers.  They're unheard of.  And median income, think of that, median income for Hispanic-Americans surpassed $50,000 for the first time ever.  That's your median.  That's not bad.  That means you're wealthy and you're getting wealthier fast.  And I just want to tell you it's an honor.  But when I'm on the debate stage debating one of these far left radical Democrats, whoever it may be, and they start telling you what they're not going to do well with women. " I did great with women.  They said, "Well a big thing. " Remember that?.  No, but was that one of the greatest evenings ever, remember? And remember all the fake news, look at all the … Oh la, that's a lot.  That's a lot of people back there.  Look at that, the red lights are on.  Don't worry, I won't say anything bad about you CNN.  Because as soon as I see, as soon as I- Because as soon as I see … As soon as is the worst.  So I turned on NBC with Lester Holt, another beauty.  And they start with a hurricane and then they went to something, and something else.  And I'm saying, "First Lady, this is getting a little embarrassing.  We're 20 minutes into a half hour show.  They haven't mentioned the Nobel Peace Prize. " And then it went through the whole show and they never mentioned.  Then I got nominated for a second one.  They never mentioned.  And when Barack Obama, Barack Hussein Obama got nominated, now when Barack Hussein Obama We must have a wall. " President Obama, "We must have a wall.  We must stop people from coming into our country illegally.  We have to stop it.  We need a wall. " Now, a few years later, they don't want a wall.  You know why? Because anything I want, they want to do the opposite.  And that's okay.  That's the only reason.  But if you want to stop the drug smugglers, human traffickers and vicious MS-3 gang members, which we're taking out every year by the thousands, and getting them the hell their bills. " I'm saying you got to pay.  I say, "Anguilla, Anguilla, you got to pay, Anguilla. " Obama would go in, make a speech, leave.  I go in and make a speech, I say, Let me speak to Anguilla.  Anguilla you got to pay your bills, you're way behind. " So I would think that they should, they should all like… When you hear they like me better, I'm not doing my job.  It's true, I'm not doing my job.  They did a poll on one of these networks, and they would say, open up, get back to work, okay? Get back to work.  I recently signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform.  I secured record and permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities.  We slashed regulations and passed massive tax cuts to give black workers a pay raise like they've never, ever gotten before and lift up black owned businesses.  And I worked closely with a great senator also, friend of theirs, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, to create opportunity zones, which are doing incredibly.  And since then countless jobs and $100 billion of new investment, not government have a shot at the NFL.  They have a shot at pro-football.  We want the NFL to proudly stand when they sing our National Anthem.  Or their ratings are going to continue to go down like they did last weekend, down 27%.  Because people don't want that.  You know what, we have enough politics, right? We have politics here.  We have politics all over.  In fact, sometimes I have to turn it off.  I can't do it anymore.  I can't watch me.  It's always … I can't watch me.  Iowa, Jeff Kaufmann.  Great job.  And just quickly, we have the world's tallest campaign manager, Brad Parscale.  And Republican National Committee Co-Chair, who has done an incredible job, Tommy Hicks.  And we have the great negotiator, the great man, Bob Lighthizer with us here, someplace.  Where's Bob? What a job he did negotiating for you.  And we have somebody that you never heard of, somebody that's a fantastic person, but you never heard of, somebody named Sarah Sanders.  Have you ever heard of her? Come here, Sarah! Come on! That's pretty good! And short the lives of thousands of young African American citizens.  Thousands.  The murder rate in Democrat-run cities like Chicago, Baltimore, New York, so many others is higher than in Afghanistan, yet Biden supports imposing these failed policies nationwide.  You will have crime like you've never seen before.  You'll have crime like you've never seen.  Last week, Joe Biden proudly accepted the endorsement of the pro-criminal Portland district attorney, who has a policy of releasing rioters, criminals, and violent extremists without charge.  Biden's plan … And every time I say Biden's plan, it's not his votes than anybody's ever had as an incumbent president.  Same thing in New Hampshire.  It's a good sign.  It's a good sign.  By a lot.  By the way, by a lot.  But I'm hearing that, and I hope this isn't the case because I'd like to find out who the hell won.  We still don't know who won in Iowa.  I heard coming over here they're still working on the count.  No, no, no.  He said, "You won. " Yeah, I think we did win.  I think we did. soldier stepped on a nail.  That's true.  I said, "Don't tell the press that because they'll say, but one soldier stepped in a nail. " I said, "How bad was it?" "It's okay. " I said, "Don't mention it please. " They always like to mention exactly what happened.  You can take it a little bit low key.  Stepped on a nail.  Not a drop of blood.  And we don't have to defend the borders between Turkey and Syria.  They've been fighting for 1000 years.  But what we do is we did a list of 25 judges or people and we'll tell them, "I will only pick from that list. " They said, "That sounds like an interesting idea. " This was my idea.  When you've never run for office before you have to have a little bit of imagination.  So I got out a list, I named the people, the people are good, and I said, "And I promise that I will pick someone like the people on this list. " And it didn't work.  It went nowhere because they didn't trust it.  They said, "We want a lot of money and whether you're rich or not, it's still a lot of money.  I don't care how rich you are.  It's a lot.  Millions and millions of dollars.  And I said no, I'm going to run for president.  And I did that.  But from the day I ran, they went from being, you know one… But from the day I ran, they went from being wonderful, they were nice.  They were nice.  I guess if I didn't do well with the show they wouldn't have been nice because they ahead, the guy's 30 years old or something.  They'll get me that, they'll say majors aren't 30, maybe he's 35 whatever he is.  They're saying, "Yes sir, it's right there. " I don't see it major, how about lifting up, let's go around.  That's the last thing we want to do in that part of the world.  He said, "Sir, it's right there, sir. " And we're landing and I still haven't seen a light.  But these guys, we have the greatest pilots in the world, we have the greatest military in the world, we and I'll say, "You know," and it's great comm in the oval office.  You don't like to hear about it because you don't hear about it too much.  That's not what they… But we have great comm considering it's pretty wild stuff going on in the world, right? But I'll be saying, "You know, they don't treat us right.  They don't treat us right.  It's not fair.  It's not this. " And then I'll just sit back, I'll say, "But we're in the oval office and they're not.  It's pretty amazing.  It's pretty right? Then they go down and they had other people.  Some of them I like.  They have Ross Perot, who honestly… It was a tough day for Bush when he joined the campaign.  Because Clinton didn't win.  Ross Perot took away 19% of the votes.  Didn't Clinton get 41 or 43%? Give me a break.  But that's okay.  Whatever.  But they had Ross Perot spent like 100 million, which is probably double if you bring it up to today's dollars.  Then they have different people.  A friend of mine who Warren, Pocahontas, you remember Pocahontas? She finally faded.  She faded badly.  But if she would have dropped out on Super Tuesday, prior to Super Tuesday, Bernie would have been the nominee.  And I don't know who I'd rather run against.  One is super left.  The other one's had to become super left.  One is competent.  The other one is only half competent now and heading south.  He's half competent and heading south rapidly.  But the globalists and the leftists make natural partners because they're united by their contempt for the American won't believe how many people.  That thing goes back… So the bottom line is when we win, America wins, that's what's happening.  And nobody's done to China what I did.  Look, billions, tens of billions of dollars of tariffs we took in.  I gave $28 billion to farmers.  The farmers are doing very well.  They're doing very well.  Thank you.  Thank you, President Trump.  28 billion.  16 billion one year 12 billion.  They were targeted.  I said, "How much is it?" Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, great guy,  Should have been started in the last administration.  Incredible.  Should have been started earlier, but we started.  In less than 10 years, the AIDS epidemic will be eradicated, will be gone.  Who would have thought that was possible? When they came in and told me that a couple of years ago, I said, "Really? Nobody knows that. " Incredible the strides that we've made.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms.  In the state of Virginia they want to take your guns away, you could be Winston Churchill, if you make that mistake, just leave the stage.  You can't recover.  But he's made it oftentimes, right, in New Hampshire, and it was Vermont.  The worst, I think, I think there was one, he was in Ohio, and he said he was in Florida, right? But he couldn't find any palm trees.  We just got a poll from Ohio.  Through the roof.  Great state of Ohio, good Governor, great state of Ohio.  But when they managed the H1N1 swine flu, this was from his top person that ran lives by not letting China.  We put a ban on China, heavily infected.  And Biden was against it.  Three months later, he said he did the right thing, I have to admit.  It's clear why both China and the flag burning rioters want Biden to win.  They know his policies will be the downfall of America and they know my policies will lift America to new heights of national greatness like we've never seen before.  That's what's happening.  That's what's happening.  And never forget, they're coming after me because I'm fighting for do that.  We're not going to pay you anymore.  We stopped payment. " We stopped payment.  It's amazing how that works, Doug.  Right? We stopped payment and they called.  They said, "We'd love to take them.  We'd be honored to take them. " So we take them back by the thousands, by the thousands.  They let lethal poisonous drugs pour freely into our schools and our communities, but no more.  It's not happening anymore.  The cruel and heartless portrayal of the American people ended the day I took the oath of should call it Comcast, because that's their beautiful maiden name, Comcast.  They're worse than CNN.  I'll, tell you something about CNN.  Jake Tapper, today he put out… Now I know you don't like him.  I know.  Who likes him? Who the hell can like him? I think his wife likes him.  Actually.  I really believe she does.  But let me just tell you, he put out a couple of social media posts today, because I never call it tweet, I call it social media because it's much bigger than tweet.  What from the Democrats.  Last year, for the first time in over 50 years, drug prices went down.  And that was for a reason.  To give former prisoners a second chance at life, we passed groundbreaking, criminal justice reform.  It's a big thing, prisoners they've gotten out of jail and they never had an economy like this.  We did a lot of things, because they get out jail they don't have a chance.  They always go back, most of the time.  Now they're coming out and we have programs, but most of all we year they went down a little bit, first time in 51 years that drug prices went down but a little bit, we're going to have prices dropping 50, 60, and even 70%.  Drugs.  About time.  And I'm proud to say that they've achieved the most secure border, our border patrol, in the history of the United States of America.  We now have the most secure border we've ever had and it's only going to get better.  And we want people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we we could have drones. " Oh what are you going to do with drones flying around? When people are going through your border with nowhere … They're going to have drones flying around.  They know because they were all for it.  They were all for it.  Now all of a sudden they're against, but they want drones.  Well we're going to have drones too but the drones are policing the wall.  In terms of human trafficking, people don't even talk about it.  Because of the internet, sadly, the worst in the history of our reason for it.  Through our historic relief programs, we've saved more than half a million Nevada jobs and over 42,000 Nevada businesses, we've saved 42,000 of your businesses.  And he's looking at doing all of this stuff.  He will destroy protections for preexisting conditions and decimate your 401s, your retirement system, your stocks, he'll establish a national sanctuary city policy for criminal illegal aliens.  He wants to cut your vet facilities in half, go to socialized healthcare and end 180 million Americans' private healthcare plans, which they love.  Biden pledges to oppose school choice, and public relations doing NBC? Not too good.  But they're just… they don't tell the truth.  Our country would be so much better off if we had honest media, really.  Really would.  And do you see what their approval rating has gone to? I think it's one of my greatest achievements.  Hey look- It's a Saturday night.  We have all night.  This happened last night in Minnesota.  I have these teleprompter people, they're great, they're genius.  And I was about 45 minutes into the speech, and I realized I was only on nicer building and you can rent for less, you're really… That's like a good thing. " So in the campaign, we spent much less money than Crooked Hillary Clinton, much.  And we won.  And we won.  We won 306 to 223.  That's a pretty big… Remember? Remember they said electoral college.  By the way, when you run, if you're running, the electoral college is like the 100 yard dash, and the total vote, you don't go certain places.  You focus.  Electoral college.  We have to explain to them, it's different.  So a developer.  I know how to get money.  It's one of those.  Developers understand.  And now that the wall is almost complete, it'll be soon complete.  And it's the wall that border security wanted so badly.  This is the one.  But now that it's built, you never hear about the wall.  They don't talk about it anymore.  They don't talk about it anymore.  It's incredible.  But the wall will soon be complete.  We've invested $2. 5 trillion in the US military and launched the first new branch of years, we'll ask for maybe another four or so.  Well, thank you very much.  Whenever I say that … Look at all that news back there, look at all that fake news.  When I say that, their heads explode.  Our movement is pro-jobs, pro-worker, pro-police, and 100% pro-American.  As we begin tonight, our thoughts are with the two sheriff's deputies in Los Angeles who were fighting for their lives when a vicious criminal walked up to their vehicle and shot them at point blank range.  Tonight, we send our love and our support to congratulate you on the incredible economy that you've created.  The greatest anywhere in the world by far. " And sadly, China who I have a very good relationship with President Xi, I really like him.  But China has had… yesterday it was announced, the worst year in 27 years.  We've had the best, and if our opponent ever got into office, instead of being up, 62% instead of those 401ks of yours being up 60, 70, 80, 90%, crash, big crash.  You would have had a crash, the likes of which we have never seen before, two, we stopped the violence and restored peace and order to the streets.  And last night that had a little breakout.  Again, they ripped down a statue that was 110 years old, beautiful piece of art in front of the police precinct with our radical left mayor watching on television.  We're not happy.  That's going to be very expensive for DC.  They're always looking for money.  "We need more money.  We always need more money. " And then they don't do the proper job.  So it's not going to be good for it.  Nobody cares.  Nobody even knows who she is.  I just made her famous, right? She's nothing.  She's nothing.  She's got no talent, got nothing.  She's probably got a little drive.  That's how she keeps getting on television.  Other people don't have her drive.  But you know what? I said, "That's really unfair. " So I took out the polls, Time magazine, Drudge, good guy, Drudge, Drudge.  We took out a lot of different things and we put up the Drudge poll, the Time magazine and many others.  And member of Congress from North Carolina's third congressional district, just won a great race, Dr.  Greg Murphy.  Greg is a winner.  So you know Greg would be great on jobs, all the things you want, tough on crime, strong on borders, pushing the wall, he'll be pushing it like nobody.  We're building the wall but we're pushing it.  It's like pulling teeth.  We've got six lawsuits on the wall, we've won two of them, we're going to win others.  But you think it's easy, don't you folks, you think this is easy? But you could probably be okay but you'd rather do what you're doing, right? I agree with you.  These are tough guys, they have to be tough.  These are bad, bad gang members.  I mean you look at MS-13, you look at what's happened with MS-13, you look at … We get them the hell out.  Sometimes we have to put them in prison because we don't even want to take a chance, they can come back in after what they've done, we had thieves, we had some very bad people in the VA and they're all  Could you imagine if he were president, "Sir, our medical costs have dropped in half price.  Transparency has been unbelievable. " "What is that? What is price transparency?" And they'll explain it to him.  He still won't have a clue.  But can you imagine giving him credit? I signed it, it's all done.  It starts on January 1st.  I say, "Why can't you start it now, just in case?" And know what they said, "Sir, statutorily, it has to start then. " I said, "All right, let's go. " But I know we're going I said, "I got to do what's right.  You know who understands the border better than anybody? You know who understands crime at the border better than anybody? The Hispanics understand it and they don't want to be working and have people come and take their job.  Have people come in where they can't pay for their house, have people come in who are very bad people. " You have some very bad people.  You have murderers and rapists, and we have set all sorts of records at the border, but we're up to 122 miles of people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any president in the history of our country.  That's not bad.  And I didn't even make these numbers up.  These are numbers that … they sound good to me.  We built the greatest economy in the history of a world.  This is the greatest economy in the history of the world.  And then the virus came in, we closed it down, we saved millions and millions of lives.  We'd be at two and a half million, two million, three million.  A number that more crimes.  You're right.  From Yuma to Mesa and from Flagstaff to right here in Phoenix, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded American Patriots who poured their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom.  Arizona was founded by pioneers and prospectors, great prospectors, cowboys and miners and ranchers who tamed the wilderness, braved the blazing sun, and it is hot here.  I've been here during the summer.  I want to tell you, it's seriously hot.  Of course, didn't they say that President Clinton, when he went on beautiful.  I watched them running through the crowds with those flags.  Here's some place, I don't know, you got a lot of people here.  We're going to try and figure it out.  Hold up your flag.  Jared Bentley and Brady Williams, who were recently suspended from their high school football team after displaying flags in support of our police and first responders on the anniversary of September 11th attacks.  Where are they? Come up here, fellas.  Come up.  Come up here.  Come up here.  Secret Service is thrilled about this. out great.  You know how I know that it's a good deal for us? Because they don't like it.  I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's rampant theft of Ohio jobs.  We achieved American energy.  We passed record tax cuts and regulations.  Our energy independence is incredible.  We have now energy independence.  We don't have to be in these far away lands anymore.  Now we'll be there to help certain allies that have been great, but we don't have to be.  Since my election, natural gas production shelves, medically, when I took over, like all of the things that when I took over, it was a mess, we have done a job.  You had to see what ISIS was doing.  They were getting bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger.  I came in, smaller, smaller, smaller.  "Sir, we've just taken 100%. " We will launch a new age of American ambition in space.  And the United States will be the first nation to land on Mars, good program.  You saw the beautiful rocket three weeks ago go up, beautiful.  We will defend standing in their way, and we will never get out of their way.  It will be easy.  From even before we won the election, the far-left Democrats and the fake news media right back there… Look at all of them, oh.  It's too bad we get such good ratings because if we didn't, they wouldn't be here.  Look at how many.  It's like the Academy Awards before it failed.  Right? And you know why it failed? Because they disrespected us.  But the media and the Democrats have been engaged in a corrupt partnership, told my guys at NASA, you know, NASA, when we took it over, it was exhausted.  The runways and the grounds had all weeds growing through the cracks in the concrete.  You wouldn't recognize it now.  It's beautiful.  It's the best place anywhere on earth.  And I also said, though, you know, I hear all these rich guys for some reason, they love space.  So they're rich.  I said, let them send the rockets up.  What the hell do we have to do it? Right? So I see Jeff Bezos and Elon much involved in a Biden government.  They will put this hate filled America, bashing socialist, front and center in deciding the fate of your family and deciding the fate of your country.  I don't think she would like to make the government of our country just like the country from where she came, Somalia.  No government, no safety, no police, no nothing.  Just anarchy.  And now she's telling us how to run our country.  No thank you.  And I think we're going to have a big victory in the state of Minnesota, because who had not anything, got a lot of money from Ukraine, but he got 1. 5 billion from China, I got to tell you, I've been negotiating with China, they're very tough.  China.  I got to tell you, I've been negotiating with China.  They're very tough.  That is not the same group of Chinese people that I've been negotiating with.  They gave him 1. 5 billion.  He'll make millions and millions with that.  And how about saying, by the way, Mr.  President, would you please take over the negotiations that President Trump  I ended the administrations … and if you look at that last administration, what they were doing on American energy, what they were doing, and now we are the world's number one energy producer by far and we are energy independent.  How about your gas prices? That's not too bad, right? You didn't think you'd ever see those prices, those under two dollar prices, did you? Thank you President Trump, I appreciate it, sir.  Biden has pledged to abolish the production of American oil and shale and clean coal and natural gas, and he wants to ban rising even faster.  What are you going to do? You are going to vote for Bernie? You are going to vote for Bernie? Here I am on the debate stage, "Well, net income has gone up for the farmers 50%. " Tell me, how the hell do I lose this debate? How do I lose? And based on the polls, I guess I'm not going to lose in this state.  I don't think I will lose in any other state either.  Because this is really true all over the country.  This is happening all over the his operation.  You look much better than you did three years ago Al, much better.  Much better.  VA choice, right Al.  VA choice.  Great story.  Thank you very much, and thank you for your loyalty.  He's been to every rally I ever gave a New Hampshire right from the beginning.  I got so tired of looking at him.  He'd always be here.  Now he's … Look at him, now he's sitting in very good.  That's good.  But I appreciate that story.  I appreciate.  VA choice just angry.  You know that crazy Bernie, all of the left democrats, they don't want to vote for him anymore because he made promises and now all of a sudden he forgot that he said no fracking.  He said, "Well, now we can do some fracking. " But remember this in politics, it's always the thing that they say first, that's what they're going to do.  No guns, no religion, no energy, no oil, remember that.  Remember, he put Beto in charge of his gun policy, right? Beto, crazy Beto.  Remember when Beto went out, he if it works there, it's really showing that it works.  It's pretty amazing.  Right to try and this is really something, brand new initiatives combating kidney disease and combating Alzheimer's disease.  We've made a lot of progress.  We've made a lot of progress, Sheldon and we're pursuing new advances in the neonatal research to care for America's youngest patients, our babies, and breaking all records in so doing.  All of the radical Democrats in the presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb right to find more cases.  So I said to my people slow the testing down, please.  They test and they test.  We had tests and people don't know what's going on.  We got tests, we got another one over here.  The young man's 10-years-old.  He's got the sniffles.  He'll recover in about 15 minutes.  That's a case, add him to it.  That's okay.  That's a case.  I was actually with a very nice man, very good man, even though he's very liberal, the Governor of New Jersey, right? We know old days they called it anesthesia.  It's essentially the same thing.  I don't want to get into a situation like where Biden used a record player.  Remember that? You go home, you turn on your record player.  But the anesthesia.  And I said, "How could that be?" So remember, this is the same visit, same visit.  They said heart attack a long time.  All of a sudden out of this book.  And he said, "Suffered mini strokes. " Now they get a letter from the White House doctor that said it's totally  Just quick.  I'll never get rid of MAGA because I'm superstitious.  But we just hit an all time high with the stock market.  Our military is rebuilt.  You just got the greatest tax cuts in history, the greatest rate, regulation cuts, and all this stuff.  So, let me ask you this.  So, "Make America great again," it sort of doesn't work quite as well.  So now we have keep America great and we have the new hat.  It's higher, stiff.  It's like a billboard, right? I call it the billboard. America wicked.  And they were saying it's wicked sinful.  It's destined for a fate of doom and despair.  That was, by the way, that was the most depressing convention.  We had a great convention.  We had a great convention.  They actually said that America wasn't great.  They actually said that America was never great.  You know who said that? Cuomo, the governor of New York, said America wasn't great.  I don't know if he's going to get away with that one.  That's going to haunt him.  That's going to not happening.  Jeff had the guts to defy the left-wing fanatics in his own party, and to stand tall in defense of our constitution, our freedom, and democracy itself.  I just want to … I have to tell you, I've gotten to know him really well over the last couple of weeks.  He's a great guy, he's a brave guy, he shares our values.  He supports lower taxes, not bad.  They want to raise your taxes.  How did that work Jeff? How did you get elected with that one? Less regulation, a strong national Now why did he bring that up when she was screaming at him? Why? Because he was gasping for breath.  I can't breathe.  I can't breathe.  She's hitting me too hard.  Pocahontas.  Well, she won that debate cause Mike could not respond.  That's what they all said.  They all said that.  That's funny.  I won, they're all shouting.  It's not me that's saying it.  Fake news.  You fake news people.  No, they all said it though.  Who won the debate? Trump.  You know what? The  Let's do a little poll.  Can we do a poll? I saved myself so much money.  You know, I saved myself so much money.  We do these polls with thousands, and those people are coming in from the back, are they not? Yes? They're coming in.  I'm telling you wouldn't have believed it.  I'm landing.  I wasn't waving at you.  I was waving at them.  There's more.  But I do these polls.  Right? And it's like a perfect poll.  Do you ever see the companies? You give them And they're really acting as police.  They're acting as police.  Now, we're very low in Afghanistan now in terms of numbers of troops.  We're getting out.  We'll be getting out soon.  We're very low in Iraq.  We're very low in Syria, except we kept the oil.  We left some behind for the oil.  If you don't mind, we kept the oil.  We should have kept the oil in Iraq like I've been saying.  We'll appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda, happened with North Korea? Look, I get along with Kim Jong-un.  They say, "That's terrible he gets along. " No it's good if I get along.  If I get along with Russia, is that a good thing or a bad thing? I think it's a good thing.  These guys only fight to tie, they don't fight to win, you fight to win.  You look at what's happening where they're all coming back home.  I even reduced in Germany because Germany, they're an ally, but you know, they took advantage of us very badly on trade to be us.  Not me, us.  It's us.  But I put it, and think of this, by the end of the term, we'll have approximately 300 brand new, great federal judges, Court of Appeals judges 300, which is a record, 300.  Give or take a little, tiny bit, but 300.  Nobody thought that was possible.  I want to thank President Obama.  He left us 142 openings.  Nobody gets left one opening.  A federal judgeship is a big deal.  Nobody gets left any openings.  He gave us 142 openings.  the richest nations in the world.  They don't have anything.  We're working on it.  We're helping people, but it's very sad.  It's never going to happen to us because we will never ever be a socialist nation.  Ever.  No matter what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction … The destruction of the American dream.  We have a dream.  It's a great dream.  This the destruction of the American dream.  We begin this campaign tonight they win, your cities will be like this.  You'll lose all rights.  Your constitution will be worthless.  It'll be a terrible, terrible thing.  I'm not even sure that, after some time listening to that and going along with it, I'm not even sure the country can ever recover.  That's how bad it would be.  I'm not sure it could ever recover.  Over Labor Day.  Left-wing radicals rampaged through Pittsburgh, harassing diners at restaurants.  I saw that one.  That was horrible.  No, I saw that, right? I saw that.  protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy, are the true American ways.  And we believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we will always live by the words of our national motto, In God, We Trust.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you, very much, everybody.  see prices tumbling like you wouldn't believe.  People go in for a blood test, they get charged $2,700.  Down the road they get the same test for $57.  The same exact test.  Maybe it's better.  Maybe it's better.  It's crazy.  When you have transparency it's all going to come.  You watch.  You watch.  But this person, a real expert, said, "This is bigger than healthcare," and I got it done.  Unfortunately it won't really start kicking in until after the election because it takes a period of time.  targeted our farmers, because they know the farmers love Trump and Trump loves the farmers.  So they targeted them and they brought the $16 billion down to practically nothing.  And they thought our farmers would say, "Oh, we don't like Trump. " They did just the opposite.  They said, "We know he's doing the right thing because we've been ripped off for so many years. " But I said to him, I said to Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Purdue, a great guy; I said, "Sonny, how much did they spend buying our corn and soy beans and It was totally appropriate.  I made it at the behest of people to say, "Could you call and say hello?" Now I'm an honest person, anyway.  But do you think, when I'm making a call to a newly-elected president of a country, that I would say something improper when I know there are so many people listening on the line? Many people.  Whoever the hell wants to listen, they listen, and they have me making some kind of a deal with all these people.  And remember, the new president of Ukraine is speaking to the United you crooked son of a guns, it's 100% true.  100%.  Even the smart guys on Wall Street, and I know all of them, they are smart.  They've never seen anything like that one before.  I've called them.  Does that ever happen? Never happens.  Guy walks in, no experience, no nothing.  Walks out with a billion five.  Gee.  Flies in on Air Force Two with his father, the vice president.  Don't forget, that's when he was vice president.  So China gives his son 1. 5 billion.  How would you guy, "Oh, I'm going to do this. " He copied my whole plan.  You see, he says, "Buy America," I said, "Where the hell have you been for the last half century?" Thank you.  Could I ask the fake news to take your cameras and show all the way back there for hundreds of yards, all the way back there.  Take your cameras.  Go as far as the eye can see.  No, no, tell NBC News it's not a thousand people.  You can't see it.  You can't see it down here.  You one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth, by far.  We are also proudly promoting American ethanol, and I recently approved E15 to be used all year round! Biofuel also, but the Socialist Democrats want to shut down American energy.  They support Representative Ocasio-Cortez.  It's a real beauty.  That's a real beauty.  That's a beauty.  I can't even believe it, but I don't want to knock it, because the Green New Deal, which would crush our farms, destroy our wonderful cows.  I love cows.  They want to kill our cows. said, "Let's get out of here.  We're bringing them all back home.  Everyone's coming back home. " Long, long wars.  The never ending wars, the endless wars.  We fixed our disastrous trade deals, they were a disaster, brought jobs and factories back to Pennsylvania under 16 years.  And think of this, for 16 years presidents, Obama, President Bush, household income rose $2,945.  That's over a 16 year period.  In three years, your household income rose almost $10,000.  When you include energy.  You have to include energy.  Without energy, almost $7,000. best.  The worlds tallest manager but he's the best manager.  Thank you, Brad.  Great job.  And he just told me our poll numbers are through the roof, he just told me that so I'll take that.  We are a year and a half away, but we're doing well, you see it.  You'd know, you'd be the first to know.  Number one, you wouldn't be here, you wouldn't be here.  We haven't had an empty seat in any event, I don't believe, that we've ever been to, I don't think we've ever had… tough dog.  But when we took out al-Baghdadi, Conan… Remember this? Conan got more publicity than President Trump.  That's okay.  They were looking for al-Baghdadi for 16 years.  We found him and we took him out.  We killed another one last week.  The head of Al-Qaeda.  He was gone, dead.  And America is respected again, respected like never before.  We're respected again.  We're no longer the laughingstock that gets taken advantage by every country, including by the way, our allies, who in many cases take a bigger advantage than our was a totally lopsided, 100% political witch hunt, and it goes on and on.  These are bad people.  I really believe they don't love our country.  I watched Nancy Pelosi.  "You must wear your mask.  You have to wear your mask, and we're going to keep every beauty salon closed in California and all over the country. " Then I see a picture.  I say, "Nancy Pelosi.  Well, where's the mask?" I'll tell you what.  She must have treated that beauty salon owner pretty badly.  She uses the salon and the what, it's backfiring.  You see it.  But the media and the democrats have launched an even more brazen assault on our nation, with a deranged hyperpartisan impeachment witch-hunt.  Impeachment.  Think of it.  So today, we just hit the highest number in the history of the stock market.  Now, that's hundreds of days.  So last week, think of this, in the history of our country, it's never done better.  And by the way, that's not rich, that's not poor, that's for everybody.  Your 401s, how you are doing? Pretty good, right? Pretty jobs following that twin disaster of NAFTA and China's entrance into the WTO, the World Trade Organization, one of the truly bad deals ever made in the history of our country.  For decades, politicians campaigned across this state promising to replace NAFTA.  They lied.  They never did it.  They never even tried to do it.  They wouldn't have been able to anyway.  It wasn't easy, I will tell you that.  But then they got elected and they did absolutely nothing.  But I'm not like those other politicians.  I keep my promises. The murder rate in Baltimore and Detroit is higher than El Salvador, Guatemala, or even Afghanistan.  How are they doing, the Democrats running those cities? Your whole country will be like that.  In 2018 alone, our police arrested nearly 12,000 people for murder and manslaughter, 25,000 people for rape, and nearly 1. 5 million for assault, violent assault.  The Democrats' push against our police will drive up crime and drive up costs at levels you'd never believe.  Thousands of innocent lives will be lost.  As President, I will always support the incredible men and women create jobs.  Nothing like that has ever happened before.  After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country.  That's the way we want it.  We are finally putting our country first.  We are putting America first.  On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than immigration.  You know it almost better than anybody.  Anybody, Doug.  You know it better than anybody, what they've done on your border, but we're stopping that border.  That border is clogged, and we've started the big be able to get any votes and you're going to lose the Midwest and all of that. " I said, "You know what? I do, whatever you want. " Then I went to Sonny Perdue, Secretary Of Agriculture, a great guy, I said, Sonny, "How much are they being targeted for?" "Sir, $12 billion the first year, two years, three years ago, and then 16 billion, a total of 28 billion. " I said, "That's okay.  We're putting tariffs on everything they send into our country, 25%. " Was going to raise it to 50%.  Also, 10% at  I make a speech.  I get the hell out of here.  No, these are great.  Do you remember the last days before the campaign? I'd do a lot of them a day.  Get off that plane.  It was a little different plane.  It was black and white instead of the blue and white.  But we had some time.  And that was an important day and that was an important year, 2016.  But I will tell you, the election that we have coming up is the single most important election in to overturn the last election.  We will make sure that they face another crushing defeat in 2020.  November 3, November 3, mark it off.  November 3, mark it off.  Was that a great day? 2016 November.  Remember? He's not going to do well with this group.  I did well.  He's not going to do well with that group.  I won that group.  He's not going to do well here or there.  Even the exit polls, they took it right up.  You know what they didn't know about the exit won so many lawsuits on the wall and we had the military money, I can build like 10 walls with all the money we have.  It's the craziest thing.  Maybe we'll build it double thick or we'll go twice as high.  No, but the wall is great.  Everything, everything, that they wanted, but I made one mistake.  I should have said, "We will not build a wall. " Then they would have insisted that we build it, I could have saved two years of litigation.  "We will not build a wall under any circumstances. do it again.  They're still trying to tell us.  I called up yesterday, how are they doing in Iowa? Was that two weeks ago? They say we're getting close.  They're not getting close, they'll never know.  They'll never know, but I hear the same thing could happen tomorrow.  I hope it doesn't, actually.  I hope it doesn't, but I'm delighted to be back in a state I love.  I have a beautiful building right down the road.  With the proud, hardworking patriots of Nevada.  You're going to say Nevada.  You environmental policy and his energy.  Energy, you can forget petroleum.  How does Oklahoma feel about being petroleum free? Not good, right? Our country will have no energy.  Our country will have nothing.  Oklahoma, Texas, North Dakota, and many others will all be out of business.  I don't think that's going to work out too well, but she's actually in charge of environmental policy.  And you know what that means.  She doesn't even want to win.  She doesn't want those bird killing machines that go round and round.  You want to see that.  You got hit hard.  This is not the guy you want.  But Biden wants to raise your taxes so high.  He would eradicate your economy.  He'd put on new regulations, and it wouldn't be him again.  I'm going to keep saying it.  It will be the people that control him.  He's a puppet.  And then he wants to do a complete shutdown.  We're setting records.  We just set a job record for four months, 10. 4 million people.  Listen to this.  So when we had this into bankruptcy left and right.  The Biden agenda would collapse our economy and destroy this great opportunity that we're having right now.  He would impose job destroying regulations that would demolish the auto industry.  You know, on regulations, it took, in many cases, 18, 19, 20 years to get a roadway or a highway approved.  We have it down now to two years.  We're trying to get it down to one year, and it may get disapproved for environmental or safety reasons, but we're going to know about it very fast.  No more 20 Thank you very much, President Obama.  He left us 142 openings.  Can you believe that? You're supposed to leave none when you leave office, but that didn't work out too well.  And just days ago, the United States brought the world's number one terrorist leader to justice.  We have great military.  It was very, very depleted.  When I came into office, it was very, very depleted, but it ain't depleted anymore.  Yep.  al-Baghdadi, the founder and leader… Look, you've heard about it for a long time.  I kept saying, "Where is off, but they're just terrific people.  They're terrific people.  But a man that I have to really say something very special about… 00 slot, because I'm out of there pretty good, and I see a handsome young man named Bob Kroll, Cops For Trump.  And he's talking about this lousy mayor they've got.  Now, he didn't quite say that, but I say it.  He's talking about this lousy mayor that won't let the cops, the police, the law enforcement… My father always used to say, "Son…" And he meant it to.  "Never say cops. you, as bad as it is, it meant something.  When you had serious high crimes and misdemeanors, when you had serious, go ahead, it's impeachment.  That would happen every 50 years, every 40 years, every 100 years.  This was a big deal.  They're making it so like, "Let's do it every six months. " They've cheapened a process.  They've cheapened a process.  These people are so bad, the radical left Democrats, and I actually think that Pelosi, who by the way, by the way, by the way, she has totally lost control.  She yet to come.  Best is yet to come.  Thank you, New Mexico.  And together, we will make America wealthy again.  Very, very wealthy.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you.  New Mexico.  Thank you.  Thank you, New Mexico.  Thank you.  Thank you. Wow, that's a big crowd.  This is a big crowd.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Hello to Swanton and a load to Toledo.  I'm thrilled to be back military might and we will ensure peace through strength.  We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency.  It's already signed, starts on January 1st.  I don't want anyone to… I know ours is a big deal.  I don't want Sleepy Joe to take care of… Can you imagine? I'll be watching.  "Prices have dropped substantially all throughout the country because of price…" And I'm the one that got it done.  And he'll say, "What did I do? What did I do? How did this happen?" And we'll further reduce health insurance premiums and I have to do with Russia? By the way, Russia wishes that Hillary Clinton won.  They wish.  We are now number one in the world in energy.  Russia is number three.  We're beating out Russia and Saudi Arabia.  You'd have windmills all over the place if you had Crooked Hillary.  They'd be knocking out those birds left and right.  Those windmills.  Wah, wah, wah.  "Darling, I want to watch television tonight and there's no damn wind.  What do I do? I want to watch the election results.  Darling, there's but we were ready.  You have no idea.  A lot of people got very lucky.  … We have a lot of your Congressmen right now in Congress.  They said, "Sir, should we come with you?" I said, "No, stay back and vote. " They're voting on some pretty important stuff, right? But, we were able to get Bill.  We thank you, Bill, very much, great job, great warrior.  Thank you, Bill.  Ohio Lieutenant Governor, Jon Husted.  Thank you, Jon.  Thank you, Jon.  Thank you, Jon.  Great job.  State  Then we're going to hit October.  We're going to be up.  We're going to be way up.  We're not going to be where we were, but in many ways, other than all of the horrible, horrible death that was so needlessly caused by a virus that should have been stopped where it originated, which was China.  But we're going to go up, up, up, up August, September, October, and people are going to say, "Man, this guy is doing a good job.  He knows what he's doing.  I don't believe the fake news want to lead our country, and we can't let a thing like this, this is a horrible, horrible thing that happened to the world it happened, should have been stopped in China.  They stopped it from going into the rest of China, should have been stopped in China.  To defeat the China virus, we launched the largest industrial mobilization since World War II.  Somebody said, "What grade would you give yourself?" I said, "A+. " But I would give myself a D, I would say I would give myself, and my whole group, because Mike Pence is like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people, with your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are, you know the story, going to keep on working, going to keep on fighting, and going to, like these guys, keep on winning, winning, winning.  You hear that, Colby? You hear that, Justin? Okay? He's fighting a tough customer, but I don't know.  I think maybe, I'm in Vegas, I'll have to place… Is the President allowed to place a bet? I don't know. a hard time, gee, what's U-S, just think of the song YMCA, and you'll remember it, USMCA.  It's a massive win for Iowa farmers and workers of all kinds.  It's a massive win and it creates some fairness with Canada.  It creates fairness with Mexico.  Probably the biggest reason that I ran was the unfair trade that I've seen, and one after one, China, Mexico, Canada, Japan, South Korea, we've made all these deals, and we have plenty left over.  Plenty left over.  Europe, Europe, Europe is next.  I wanted to finish China somebody very important to all of us, to me… Also, I have to say with us tonight is an Arizona hockey great, a friend of mine.  He's a great golfer too.  He's a tough golfer.  I'll tell you, he's tough to beat.  He's tough as hell.  And if you beat him in golf, he'll try and beat you physically.  He doesn't care.  He was the toughest hockey player.  He was one of these guys, he could beat you one way and if he couldn't, he just beat them up, right? He'd beat of Texas with one of America's greatest, most devoted and most loyal friends, Prime Minister Modi of India.  Thank you.  Thank you.  And Prime Minister Modi is doing a truly exceptional job for India and for all of the Indian people.  It is my immense privilege to be here with him today at this profoundly historic event.  We're especially grateful to be joined by over 50,000 incredible members of our nation's thriving, prospering, flourishing, and hardworking Indian American community.  Thank you.  Just a few months ago in the largest democratic election in the wonderful man who represents this area, Scott Perry.  Representative Lloyd Smucker.  Lloyd.  A guy who was always there for us, John Joyce.  And two people that you all know very well in this state, they bring home the bacon, Dan Meuser and Fred Keller.  Thank you fellas.  Thank you.  I want to also bring back our Pennsylvania Party Chairman.  And I know his grandfather, I shouldn't say that to you.  He was a tremendous man, Dan Tabas, but I'm going to introduce somebody that Dan always said had tremendous talent.   They announced the impeachment, and then an hour later, she announced that she's going to USMCA.  You know why? It's a huge deal and it plays down the impeachment because they are embarrassed by the impeachment, and our poll numbers have gone through the roof because of her stupid impeachment.  And think of it this way also, the silver lining of impeachment and this witch hunt, that's the reason they approved USMCA.  So that's okay with me, because they approved it and they're very happy to have it.  But honestly, it's an incredible deal for to believe it. " And he said to me, "Mr.  President. " He calls me Mr.  President, everybody calls me Mr.  President, it's true, it's a funny thing.  He said, "Mr.  President, you're right, I'm supporting you, I think you're doing a great job.  And maybe we didn't get along. " But it's not like he has a choice, he has no choice.  And on top of that, it's a good choice because we've done the right thing.  And it is funny with the name Mr.  President, I have friends, really  I mean, it's happening.  You see.  Florida is way down.  Texas is now way down.  Arizona, governor's done a great job.  All three governors have done a great job.  And Louisiana now, they had a spike, but they had the spike, but the spike was able to be handled, because now we understand.  And what we did, we saved millions of lives, because I hated to do it, but we had to close it up, understand this disease, and then open up again.  And we opened, but we would have had terminally ill, and they can't get medicine that possibly works.  And very well, we have the greatest labs and the greatest doctors in the world, the greatest scientists in the world, we have the greatest medicines in the world.  If they have something that they're pretty sure is going to work but is going to take another six years, I brought those times way back, by the way, way down, but they would travel to Asia, they would travel to Europe, they would travel all over the world to try and get a cure because we wouldn't sell lot and shot him in cold blood, then walked over to the victim and shot him four more times right in the face as he laid dying in the street.  This savage animal had previously been deported after serving six years in prison.  He was in prison six years.  He was there six years and nobody wants to talk about it.  They want to protect them.  Last year in Tucson, another illegal alien was sentenced to 10 years for repeatedly raping a vulnerable young woman.  Yet left wing politicians oppose all detention of illegal woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  When I took over, NASA was a shell of itself.  It was closed, they had grass growing in the runways, grass growing in the runways.  Now it's the number one space center in the world by far.  We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools.  We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.  We will live  But now you're really losing your doctor.  You're going to have socialized medicine.  Eliminate private healthcare insurance for 180 million Americans who love their healthcare.  They have the best in the world.  His running mate sponsored the socialist takeover of healthcare.  You saw that.  He wants to ban private insurance.  You're going to lose … 180 million people are going to lose their healthcare under this Biden character, and he has no clue.  They're going to take it away from him.  They're going to be running him ragged.  "Sign than an hour.  We could, whether it's asylum, whether it's any of the laws, we have so many of them that are so bad.  How they got that, it took years and years to end up.  But we have the Mexican soldiers out there.  You see them, and they're stopping people.  The numbers are plummeting down.  So I just want to thank all of the representatives of Mexico.  Amazing.  Well, we've got to get rid of the loopholes.  You know, the word is loopholes, and the Democrats could do it fast. everybody.  Thank you.  Thank you.  And I'll tell you, we're landing and there are thousands of people along the runways, and I said, "Why aren't they here?" "Sir, we couldn't let them in. " "Why not? Let's let them in. " Oh, these people.  And then they put in a floor.  This is for Manchester because you know about flooring.  They put in a floor that's like an ice skating rink.  So we're going to tiptoe around.  How are you, everybody? We love you.  We love you.  Great, great people. He was going to die that night.  I tell this story all the time.  His wife, she was crying so much.  When he finally did awake, I said, "Well, one thing I learned, your wife loves you. " "Why do you say that?" "Because she was devastated. " I know many wives that don't get too upset.  His wife was devastated.  His family was devastated.  The doctor told me he didn't have a good chance, but he's tough as hell and he's a really terrific friend.  He's a winner.  He put himself gone.  Thank you, I love you too, thank you.  Thank you.  Such friendly voices.  Quite beautiful.  Only in Pennsylvania, right? Thank you.  I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal, think of this.  Obama paid $150 billion for a short-term deal.  He gave $1. 8 billion in cash.  You ever see a million dollars like at a casino floor or something in $100 bills? It's a lot, it's like the size of this, right? Now think $1. 8 billion.  How did you guys allow that to happen? They before.  He'll obliterate your Second Amendment.  He'll give you… And he would, he would give free… He wants to give free healthcare to illegal aliens that will bankrupt Medicare.  He wants to give… You saw him raise his hand.  Remember the debate where they're all standing there and he looked around, "Who's going to give free healthcare to illegal aliens?" And everyone's raising hands.  He's going, "Oh…" Now take a look.  I'm not kidding.  It's sad.  It's pathetic.  He would end our travel bans on jihadist regions and increase refugee admissions fake news wouldn't show up.  He was standing there, nobody was in front of him.  But he would stand there, and he would say, "You are safe.  You are safe.  Everything is okay.  You are safe. " Well, that's a lie, I guess, right? So I said, "Oh, I never thought of it that way.  I guess he lied. " No, he's a great leader, and he was leading, and he was a great, great prime minister.  He did a fantastic job.  Not lying.  No.  We love our country, we two Republicans, think of that.  And the other three couldn't get there because of, but they were votes.  They said they were totally votes, had airport problems.  I said, you can't do that.  Airport problems.  But then we had the Democrats.  We picked up two Democrats, so we had bipartisan support.  That's unusual.  I always say because they're lousy politicians, they've got lousy policy, but they do stick together.  That's about it.  We will elect a Republican Congress in 2020.  And we'll have a great speaker of the house all of our agricultural product?" He said, "Sir, $16 billion. " I said, "Good, I'll make it up. " And we're going to have a lot leftover.  So we will have, pretty soon, over $100 billion in money paid into the United States Treasury by a country that never gave us 25 cents.  They only took.  They only took.  So when I said to the farmers, "We're going to send you $16 billion, and it's already been sent.  And it's been split into $12 billion the year before. " I mean, think of that, $28 makes sense, right? Doesn't it make sense? We've achieved record funding for the United States military.  $716 billion, $700 billion and $738 billion.  And it's almost completely rebuilt.  Including, and we hope to God we never have do use it.  We have the finest, most powerful nuclear capability anywhere on the face of the earth.  And I hope to God we never have to use it.  We're investing in the future of human space flight.  And someday soon American astronauts will plant the stars and stripes on the surface of Mars.  I She forgot that she lied about her own heritage.  She said she was an Indian because she had high cheekbones.  That was the only thing.  Remember what I said, I have more Indian blood in me than she has and I have none.  Right? I have none.  To the best of my knowledge, wouldn't mind having some, but I happen to have none.  And she choked and she went out and got a report done.  One, 1 thousandth and 24 you know what that means? That means probably I do have more.  location.  You know how great it was? We landed, we had to drive for 50 minutes.  That's how great.  But I like it anyway.  I'll take it.  I'll take it anyway.  I like it.  You're my kind of people.  We love each other.  I like it.  We landed the big, beautiful Air Force One.  I just asked as we're coming in, "Why couldn't we have landed here?" I would have rather, then I could have had the plane right behind me.  Instead, we have the beast.  See they don't like their job, they go out and they get a different job, and they get more money, and ultimately they find one that they love.  You have so many opportunities right now.  Wages are up, jobs are up.  And today we set a new record, almost 160 million people are working.  We've never come close to that number.  That's a hell of a number.  But just quickly, here are the facts on Shifty Schiff.  Dishonest guy, makes up my statements.  He said, "The President of Ukraine repeatedly declared that there their families, and we pray to God for their recovery.  The radical left in America is waging open war on law enforcement.  Hundreds of officers nationwide have been injured in left-wing riots and mobs.  You see it, you see it all the time.  Please, sit down.  Please, let's have a little fun.  We got plenty of time.  I mean, here it is.  I mean, what do we have? Football is boring as hell.  It's just not the same.  Right? I don't know.  Used to be people would say, "Hey, here for 47 years.  He didn't do anything. " My actions saved countless jobs across Ohio and here in Toledo, the home of the Jeep, right? The home of the Jeep.  That's good.  That's a great brand.  They've done a great job with Jeep.  Jeep.  Everyone loves Jeep.  Earlier this year, I kept my promise to Ohio when we ended the NAFTA nightmare.  I proudly signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement in July.  That's a big difference.  Like day and night.  It's working out great too.  It's working names than any disease in history.  I can name, "Kung flu. " I can name, 19 different versions of names.  Many call it a virus, which it is.  Many call it a flu, what difference? I think we have 19 or 20 versions of the name.  But they say to me, "Where do you get the energy?" I say, "I don't have a choice.  I don't have a choice. " It was interesting, to show you how fake they are, you might've seen it.  So last week they called me and they say, "Sir, of ballots, you'll see them, anytime you do, report them to the authorities.  The authorities awaiting and watching.  From Akron to Columbus, from Cincinnati to Queen City, I know it weller than Cleveland, and from Dayton to Toledo, we inherit the legacy of generations of Ohio patriots, like Neil Armstrong, Annie Oakley, William McKinley, and the amazing Ulysses S.  Grant, that's good.  Nobody's stock has gone up like Grant.  Nobody in the last 10 years.  We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed and it flies in so powerful, so big.  I'll be talking to some of the parents, and they'll act like they're fine.  I said, "How are you doing?" "We're fine, sir.  We're fine.  We're really good. " I say, "That's great. " And I'll tell the Colonel, I'll say, "Colonel, I think they're doing great. " "No sir, they're not going to do great.  You'll see. " And I didn't know what he was talking about, this is the first time.  Then we went outside to the runway, and this incredible machine is flying The unemployment rate for women reached the lowest rate in 71 years.  African American youth unemployment has reached an all time historic low.  People I love, people I might've helped more than anybody because of choice and accountability.  The veteran's unemployment rate drop to the lowest record.  Lowest in history.  The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all time historic low and you got to remember they're back there checking every word.  They're going," oh, my god.  He's right. " I can't say it because I got all these maniacs back  We had great, great luck and great people backing us in North Carolina.  And I'm thrilled to be in Winston Salem with thousands of loyal, hard working American Patriots.  You are great people.  Great people.  I don't know how many people here, but there's a lot.  We said let's keep it down.  They didn't do too good a job, but that's good.  That's good.  Now these crowds, I tell you it's beyond what we had in terms of enthusiasm, beyond what we had four years ago in 2016, and that was him get away.  We'll be bringing that up on occasion.  For 47 years, Joe Biden crushed the dreams of Wisconsin workers and enriched foreign countries.  That's what happened.  Before I got here, what was happening with Japan? And we pay our deep respects to Prime Minister Abe of Japan, a great friend of all of ours, a great friend of mine.  He's going to be leaving office very soon, like in a matter of a day.  And he was a great gentleman.  He's a tough negotiator, I'll tell you that.  He made years ago.  We're now the party of the workers.  We're the party of a lot of different things now, but we weren't really considered the party of the workers.  Certainly not anymore.  Remember this, we're the party of Abraham Lincoln.  A lot of people forget that.  Honestly.  Remember when they used to say, "he doesn't act presidential"? And I used to say, "It's so easy to be presidential. " I'd only have about 10 or 15 people here.  You'd be bored.  But remember I used to do that? But I'd always shot.  Putin is not shot.  Kim Jong-un, remember we're supposed to be in a war with him, what happened to the war? No, it seems to be good.  Did you see the Middle East two days ago? Remember our incompetent negotiator John Kerry? He never got up to walk.  The guy's getting beaten on every point, I say, "Walk.  Walk.  Get up and leave the table.  You're giving up. " They'd say, "We want this. " He'd say, "Well, I'd rather not. " "We want this. " "Okay, you got it. " "We worry about it. " Right, Sean.  I said, "Sean do you think we're going to win here?" I don't like these polls, but four down.  He said, "Sir, you're going to win so easy. " And, early in the night, they said, "Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin. " And, so when I'm here, speaking in the freezing cold, I'm lucky they had… I said, "Do you think we have…?" It's very warm in New York and very warm in Washington, it was hot actually.  And I said, "Do you think we have a coat to keep the White House.  Joe Biden's record can be summed up as four decades of betrayal, calamity, and failure.  He never did anything.  He was a Senator.  He was a Vice President.  He was before that something.  You know what's great? President.  Trump was tough on this or he was tough.  They complained, never did anything about it.  He's been there for 43 years or 47 years.  He never did anything about it.  Biden's supported every globalist attack on the American worker let's make every country of the don't want the job.  There's some tough people here.  None of you want the job.  It's a tough job, but they like it, and they're great Patriots, and they've done a fantastic job.  They ceded control of the border to the most dangerous and ruthless cartels on earth.  This is what would happen.  They have ceded.  And what we've done, did you ever notice the caravans? What happened? Debbie, there are no more caravans.  What happened? What happened to the caravans? They don't come up anymore.  The caravans don't come up. you.  I love you.  But you know why? Because, again, nobody has done what we've done.  Ohio had the best year in its history last year.  We had a great year.  And next year, assuming we win, which I hope we're going to win, but if we win, you're going to have a year next year.  First of all, take a look at the third quarter.  It's going to be announced the numbers just before the election.  They'll come out three days before the election.  And I'll tell you what, I'll has always belonged.  It's coming back to you, you see that.  With your help, your devotion and your drive we are going to keep on working and we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before and ladies and gentlemen, and especially the great ladies and gentlemen of Iowa, the best is yet to come.  True, true.  Because together we will make America wealthy again.  our country.  Ever recorded! Women's unemployment is at a 65 year low.  Sorry about that.  Soon it's going to be historic.  Another couple of good months it'll be historic.  65 years for women.  In the eight years before I took office over 300,000 working age people left the workforce.  They had no choice.  In just three years of my administration 3. 5 million people have joined the workforce.  Nobody believes it, including the fake … The workforce.  Nobody believes it including the fake news.  If I would have said phonies.  But you guys, we have your back 100%.  Michael, you'll make sure, all right? I also want to introduce and thank … He's done a fantastic job.  Nevada Republican Party Chairman, Michael McDonald.  And a friend of mine, and thank you, Michael.  Your former Attorney General Adam Laxalt.  And a person with tremendous spirit and personality to put it mildly.  She's tough, but she's very kind.  She's a great person, Kimberly Guilfoyle.  Thank you, Kimberly.  Thank you.  Thank you, Kimberly.  The owner of the Chicago Cubs and years our country is being ripped off by China and many other countries, including, I hate to say it, our allies.  Our allies have been ripping us big.  And you heard me say last night, NATO, I got $130 billion from them first time going up to $400 billion a year from NATO countries, by saying, "You got to do it.  You got to do it. " And general Secretary Stoltenberg said it can't be done.  He could not believe it.  He's actually my biggest fan and nobody ever calls him for a quote.   Mexico's been great.  By the way, they gave us 27,000 soldiers on our border.  But when a governor, nice guy actually, he's a nice guy.  We just got to explain the facts of life.  He's a nice guy.  Oh doctor, please.  Doctor in the house, please.  Medical, please.  A doctor.  Thank you.  Take your time.  We've got plenty of time.  Yeah, take your time please.  A lot of these people have been here for three days.  It's a lot.  Those front row people are we are the party of the American dream.  This is the proud banner the Republican Party will carry into the Republican National Convention next summer in the great city of Charlotte, North Carolina.  Don't disappoint me, that should be good for at least 10 points, right? These are some of the greatest ladies, I see them in Ohio, and Florida.  We love you too, thank you, really.  How many have you been to, just out of curiosity? What's the number? All but two, I've done hundreds of them.  And then they say women don't like treated by Hillary and that group.  And then it happened again with Elizabeth Warren, right? It happened again.  What the Democrat party did to him.  And then you have this guy, Mike Bloomberg, mini Mike, one question and he was gone.  There goes 1. 8 billion out their window.  I said, "You think it's easy up here, Mike, don't ya?" One question and that was the end.  He said, "Where am I? Get me the hell off of this platform. " Mini Mike, mini Mike.  So now he's trying to buy into the place.  You got to be like Perry Mason and every illegal that comes in, they have the lawyers.  The lawyers meet them, they get paid fees, but we're breaking the system.  No more catch and release, you think that was easy? And the big thing is that 30 foot… And this wall is built exactly to the specifications of border patrol.  Totally.  And border patrol has seized the largest amount, just recently, of deadly narcotics ever recorded.  The largest amount.  We've deported record numbers of gang members.  We've done more to secure be very hard for them to destroy what we've done.  Very hard.  And, that's really why I consider this election… Look, we had a very, very special day in 2016.  It was a very special day.  Very special day.  It was an incredible day, an incredible month, an incredible year, and I don't know that you can ever compare anything to it.  But, I can say this, 2020 is essentially just as important, because they'll try and take it away.  Whether it has to do with religion.  Our evangelicals are here tonight, it.  Open up your season, Big 10.  And the Dems don't want it back for political reasons.  But now their new line… This is like Russia, Russia, Russia.  All this crap they come up with.  Now their new line is they are trying to blame me and keep football shut down.  They want to keep it shut down.  And they're saying that President Trump shut it down.  I'm the one that wants it open.  So they're reversing it.  They're playing a big con game.  It's just a con game. of them all, not one mentioned.  These people are corrupt.  Not one mentioned, not one mentioned.  So your President gets a Nobel and, at least a nomination, and they don't mention it.  Joe Biden cannot lead our country because he doesn't really believe in our country.  Right now, I don't think he believes in anything, he just wants to go to sleep.  That's all.  "Please, darling, I want to go to bed.  I'm exhausted.  I made one speech yesterday. " "But darling, they gave you the answers and the questions. "  The problem was we couldn't get the money, but we got all the money we need now.  We have everything.  We have everything.  The last time, this last budget, they didn't really fight us on the wall.  You know why? Because they learned it's a really bad issue for them.  It's a really bad issue.  But I made one mistake with the wall.  I should have said, "We will never ever build a wall. " They would have given me so much money to build a wall.  That was my only care of healthcare like nobody's been able to do.  What we've done is incredible.  And by the way, we're protecting your Second Amendment.  If you don't have me, your Second Amendment is gone.  So we have the greatest economy, the greatest military.  We've rebuilt our military, $2.  5 trillion, because when I took it over, it was a mess.  And what do they want to do? "Let's impeach our president," right? I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I think we're going to have a turnout the likes of which Trans-Pacific Partnership.  And we're building many auto plants, you know that, some here, but we're building many auto plants in Michigan, many auto plants in Michigan.  If we don't win Michigan after all those auto plants, and I don't know, but it's been tough but we won it last time.  And we're showing a poll that just came out that we're two points up in Michigan.  That's very good, that's very good.  I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's rapid theft of American jobs.  Biden's agenda is made in China, couldn't see straight.  This poor guy, did I hear he needed a restraining order after this whole thing to keep him away from Lisa? That's what I heard.  I don't know if it's true.  The fake news will never report it, but it could be true.  No, that's what I heard.  I don't know.  I mean who could believe a thing like that? No, I heard that Peter Strzok needed a restraining order to keep him away from his once lover.  Ah, Lisa, I hope you're miss him.  Lisa, he'll never be  My beautiful Ivanka.  She had such a great life.  She Had a company that was selling shoes and everything you could sell.  She'd just put her name on it and she said, "Daddy, does it matter? I want to come to Washington and help people get jobs. " Right? Ain't that true? And she left the company.  And when you leave a company, all of a sudden it doesn't do as well.  I wouldn't say that I exactly helped talking about the wall and other things, but she left the company, came to Washington Cambridge to Council Bluffs, from Cedar Rapids where I made my last speech prior to the election.  What a place, 32,000 people.  I said, "I'm going to win tomorrow. " To Rock Rapids, from Melbourne to Moorhead, and from Davenport to right here in Des Moines, Iowa.  We stand on the shoulders of true red blooded American heroes.  This great state was founded by tough, tough, tough frontier men.  These are tough people.  Let's see how big and how tough.  They're tough.  Anybody like to join ICE? You want to join ICE? figured the show would be a total failure.  So they only signed me for one season.  You know I was going to have it.  It was go on and then the show goes, started at ten went to eight, went to seven, went to five, went to four, went to two.  It went to one.  I had the number one show in all of television.  Number one.  It was a phenomenal and the final episode, remember that? With the, you remember that? Do you remember the final? We had, I don't know, it shots, right? He was like a pinata.  So Mike, that was great.  Goaltender Jim Craig.  So Jim rebuffed come here, Jim.  Great goaltender, great goaltender.  They didn't know what was happening.  They kept shooting.  He doesn't know how many you rebuffed.  How many did you rebuff? 37.  So let me ask you, was that as goaltender, because that was incredible.  Was that the greatest game you ever played? You've had a lot of great games.  But was that the greatest game you've ever played? It was slightly important.  said, "I will never ever … I promise to you, ride a bicycle in a race, or any other time frankly. " I will never ride a bicycle during a negotiation.  And he broke his leg, and his arm, and he was all screwed up.  And that was actually a good thing, because it delayed the signing of that horrible deal, which I terminated.  Nah, we had some terrible negotiators, and they all said, I saw them the other day, this was him like a year ago, "Mark my words, you will never ever sign deals with They have certain statutory requirements, et cetera.  Well you better let me win.  Can you imagine? Can you imagine? I did transparency, I took the guts, I did transparency and then I'm going to watch as somebody else says, "Didn't he do a great job for transparency?" You better let me win because I want the credit for that one.  We're buying cheaper drugs from other countries and approving more generic drugs than ever, ever, ever before.  We are defending your right to keep the doctor.  We are defending your right to keep your plan. have never been more extreme, taking cues from crazy Bernie Sanders.  How's he doing tonight? 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie's healthcare takeover of the world.  Think of this, 180 million Americans are going to lose healthcare coverage under this plan.  But if you don't mind, I'm not going to criticize it tonight.  Let them keep going and I'll start talking about it about two weeks out from the election.  Okay? Because I don't want him to change.  Please don't change.  Same with the Green New Deal.  I don't want Musk, they're putting rockets up.  I think it's great.  And they pay us rent.  They use our facility.  That's great.  But we're also doing it, and NASA has some of the greatest plans we've ever had.  These are great people, great scientists.  But we also let the private sector put up rockets.  The one which recently went up and you see the engines coming back down and they coming … There's no wings, no nothing.  It's almost like, what are we watching is this fiction? And they come down and they  The sad part about that… Sleepy Joe is right.  You know the sad part about that? When you do that, you can't really recover.  You can be Winston Churchill, make the finest remainder of remarks, but you get killed.  And he does it every time.  And the fake news, they give him a total pass and that's okay.  It's all right.  It's going to happen to all of us someday.  Does anybody get that? Yeah.  In Wisconsin, the unemployment rate has reached its lowest level in history.  How's that for are a big tent and we are a big party of big ideas for the future.  That's why African Americans are joining the Republican Party like nobody ever thought even possible.  They love us and we love them.  And to give former prisoners a second chance at life, we passed.  It was us, not the Democrats.  They came to me, they wanted help, I gave them help.  I got it done.  I called Republicans that maybe wouldn't have been so inclined, some of them.  Some of them very much inclined.  Some did sleepy Joe Biden.  Remember Biden just sitting in the room saying, why don't you use the Logan Act on General Flynn? Look at General Flynn, what he's going through for years.  If that were ever reversed, I'm telling you, you'd have many people in jail for many, many years and it would have started three years ago.  It's a disgrace, but let's see what happens.  Biden's a globalist sellout who spent his career laying waste to American communities.  And you know, he talks about like, well, he's going to do this.  He's going like that, the thing flips on.  Whoa.  And then, dung, dung.  These people are crazy.  And then in California, this governor, who has no clue by the way, he has no clue.  Governor Gavin Newsom.  He sends all the water out to the Pacific and then he just comes up … I don't know if you saw this.  They come up with rules and regulations.  Starting soon, if you're a person lives in California, you only get 50 gallons of water.  Now, it sounds like a lot of water, but it's prom.  It says, Trump Pence, and they've got buttons all over it.  They've got shirts saying Trump and Trump Pence.  I never saw anything like it.  "If every state is like Tennessee, sir, I hate to tell you, you're going to have one hell of a victory," and that's what happened, right? That's happened.  You did it.  You did it, and I think we're going to have bigger numbers, even bigger numbers, because I'll tell you what, we're a long way from the election.  I think the crowds today are bigger than they here in the great state of Wisconsin.  We will rapidly return to full employment, that's happening very fast, soaring economies; and the record prosperity will be even greater than it was, last year.  We will hire more police, increase penalties on assaults of law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities.  And, we will ban sanctuary cities, which are deadly.  We will appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda.  We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed.  We happen, and I had great help from these gentlemen right here.  I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's pillaging, plundering and rampant theft of Pennsylvania and many other places, jobs.  That's all throughout the world by the way but our states have been just pillaged by China and others.  Joe Biden's agenda is made in China, my agenda is made in America.  After years and years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country, it's called America First.  We're America First, that's enough, and we're bringing our soldiers back and all of the folks, we're coming up with a great healthcare plan that if we take back to the house.  That's why Dan and Greg, if we take back the House, if we keep the Senate, and maybe even increase it a little bit, wouldn't be bad, and on the assumption we keep the presidency, you're going to have great healthcare.  Thank you.  We almost had it.  We had a man campaigning for eight years to knock out Obamacare, and when he voted it didn't work out that way, did it? We had it, and all like genius.  But we are going to achieve new breakthroughs in science, medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending within 10 years the AIDS epidemic in America.  That's shocking to hear that but we can do it, we're going to do it, definitely.  Incredible, the strides that we have made.  We will defeat the Democrats to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare and education by liberating Americans from their analysts' push for a job killing, soul crushing Washington regulations.  As an example, we're trying to get the car companies, going Everybody remembers that.  Everybody remembers was there.  Good, you're looking well.  Thank you very much.  Say hello to the whole family.  Thank you.  Thanks to the incredible sacrifices of our warriors, and they are warriors.  We're pursuing peace in Afghanistan, it's very close.  We're down to, we will soon be down to 4,000 soldiers.  We're taking them out.  They're serving as policemen.  They're serving as police, and they've done a great job.  We could win everything, but I'm not looking to kill three million people to win, what? took care of Governors, we took care of the states.  On November 3rd, North Carolina will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity, or whether we allow Joe Biden to impose a $4 trillion tax hike, ban American energy, confiscate your guns.  These are all things that he said.  Shut down our economy, destroy the suburbs.  They were saying that women in the suburbs, they're not sure if they like me.  They're starting to like me a lot lately, because it's law and order.  They want law and order.  Thank you. words, right? Do you ever see it? They say he copied my campaign.  I keep saying, what the hell happened for 47 years and now he's copying my campaign.  As president … and you know it's not going to happen with him, as president, I know my first duty is always to take care of you, the American worker.  That's what we're taking care of.  Under my administration, we've achieved the most secure border in US history and we are finishing that wall, it's going to be done so fast.  It's got to be done you.  There's a lot of truth in that one.  And they do come after me.  They do come after me.  They have more things to say about me.  Every day, it's something.  They said, you see the plane where it is? Sir, would you like to take the car? I say, why? I'm saying what? Well, I heard you had a limp.  I do? I don't know about a limp.  I don't have a limp.  Hey, someday, I'm going to have a limp.  I'll let you know when.  You'll your mask.  No, but the new one is, I went for a physical, the doctor said to me, "Sir would you like to go over to Walter Reed? It's incredible. " By the way, the job they do on people that have been just really hurt, our heroes.  The job they do is incredible.  "Sir would you like to go over and do a physical? You have some time. " You know why I had time? Some deal, oh, it was China.  I decided not to see China because I didn't like the way they were we have, Dan Scavino.  The great Dan Scavino.  We have won five sites.  We're number one on Twitter, we're number one on Facebook, and the whole world.  The whole world.  So it's powerful.  But Jake Tapper put out some things, basically saying, I believe it, that's the way I read it, that the new Russian thing that started yesterday, that Putin wants to be sure that Trump, which give me a break.  Give me a break.  But Jake Tapper said it ain't so, and if he did say that because they were By the way, that's like a good story compared to some I could tell you, like with aircraft carriers.  So they said, "$250 million?" Or I always say this, or around that number, because if I'm off by a little bit, they say, "Oh, he exaggerates. " I look at numbers all day long.  That's what I look at for years now, for my whole life when you think of it.  $250 million cancellation fee, sir.  He was very proud of himself.  What a great … I say, "General.  Don't cancel.  Don't cancel. win Florida, I just left Florida, we're going to win Florida.  North Carolina Republican Party Chairman Michael Whatley North Carolina, great.  Thank you Michael.  Thank you, great job, and a very good friend of mine, a great guy, Mick Mulvaney.  Where's Mick? Oh, I didn't know Mick was here.  Look at him.  What a good guy.  Thank you Mick.  We have a lot of big shots over there I see but what do you think about a guy named Mark Meadows, chief of staff? We love Mark.  Doing a great job. afflicted regions.  Take the people, take the people.  We defeated ISIS.  We.  When I took over three years ago, when we took over, when I took over, ISIS was all over.  I defeated ISIS.  I didn't even know to what extent.  I was watching the other night the great Lou Dobbs, and he said, "When Trump took over, President Trump," he used to say, "Trump is a great president. " Then he said, "Trump is the greatest president since Ronald Reagan. " Then he said, "No, no, Trump is an even better president  Look it, they just form.  Wow.  Turn the cameras around, please.  They never do it.  Turn the cameras around, please.  Wow.  Thank you.  That's a lot of people.  We're proud of you.  That's a lot of people.  You ever notice, they never do it, though.  I say, "Turn the camera. " Right from the beginning, they never did.  They don't want to give us the credit for these big crowds, because you know what? When you see crowds like this, or in Wisconsin, that I had a it happens all of us. " Right? Except these young ones.  It's never going to happen to them.  And I'd look at it at that, but you know what happens? But nothing happened.  So I went in, I did that part of the physical.  The end result was he's very healthy.  They were very unhappy when they heard that result.  What you don't remember is when this took place, it was a long time ago.  They just started up because they want to try and get me to be in Biden's physical level. religion, and creed.  We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will strike down terrorists to threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of endless ridiculous foreign wars.  We'll build up our military like it's never been built up before.  We need our military for other reasons.  We will have the strongest we have now.  When I took over, our military was depleted.  We have a lot of military people we should have gone in.  I wanted to go in the first night, we would have stopped it immediately but it was a great outcome as was in Minnesota.  Again, if they would have called us early it would have been over.  Portland, I'd love to go there.  That would be so easy.  You know in Seattle, they heard we were coming in, they gave up.  They heard we … I said, "That's enough.  We're going in.  I don't care.  We're going in. " "Do you have permission. " "No, we're happened? When I heard about the farmers and I saw the farmers, they were in the White House.  They came to see me.  I had 36 farmers and I said, "I'm going to give you. " They said, "Sir, we don't want anything. " I said, "What do you mean you don't want anything? I've never heard that before. " Everybody wants money.  They want every.  They said, "We just want a level playing field. " I never forgot it.  They said, "We don't want anything.  We just want a level playing field, and achieved American energy independence.  Nobody thought it was possible.  When Biden pledged to abolish the production of American oil and shale and clean coal and natural gas, which is very clean, and he wanted to ban fracking, we said, "No, we're not doing that.  For 47 years, Biden crushed the dreams of American workers to enrich foreign countries.  That's what happened.  Look, he says he's going to change.  He's been there for 47 years and you know that he's been there until three and a half years ago.  So it's not like, "Gee, So who the hell is going to trust? They say, "Trust government. " Well, how would you trust a guy that fought that we aren't here, that we can't have all these thousands of people? Boy, you are really back far.  That's… Look at that.  No, but seriously.  And now he's in charge of the election and the millions of ballots.  So if I'm up like millions of votes, he can rig the election, he can rig the election.  And I'll tell you what, whether it's in North Carolina, whether it's in Michigan, whether it's "Sir, are you ready?" I said, "I'm ready General, where are we going now?" You have to understand I left early in the morning to get there.  Now it's sort of late in the afternoon.  A lot of these fakers were with us.  So they know.  He said, " Sir, we can now leave the stage. " I said, "Great general, let's go, I'll follow you," and he goes like this, "Right here, sir," and I walked off.  The stage was higher than this one and the ramp was probably 10 yards long.  I can burn the hell out of Reno.  They can do whatever the hell they want if it's a riot.  But if you want to go to church, you can't do it.  If you want to be in a group of people, you can't do it.  But there's a lot of harm done on the other side.  There's a lot of tremendous harm done.  Remember, the cure can't be worse.  Remember that.  And on the other side, drugs, suicide, depression, substance abuse of different kinds, heart disease.  You have tremendous problems on a lot of people don't know because the fake news doesn't write about it.  So if you're a president, right? And you are nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, you're the United States, no, but think of this.  That's a big deal.  I mean Obama got it like in his first couple of weeks and nobody knew why he got it including him, remember? He couldn't tell you why.  He had no idea.  To this day, he has no idea why he got it.  But if you're a president and you get nominated, then flood our communities with drugs and crime, and enrich themselves at America's expense.  Their treachery is allowed because they go along with the rigged Washington game, and it is far more rigged.  When I ran, I thought it was rigged, but this is crazy what's happening.  But if you refuse to bow or bend to the Washington swamp, which I could do very easily, I'd be much more popular.  Folks, it would be so much easier.  But they smear you, they spy on you, and they target your friends, your family, your staff for harassment, is made in China.  My agenda is made in the USA.  It's very simple.  So we did many things.  Not only China, not only the $28 billion farmers.  We did so much and I'm proud to announce that I'm doing even more to support Wisconsin farmers.  Starting next week, my administration is committing an additional, you've been asking for this for a long time, $13 billion in relief to help farmers recover from the China virus, including Wisconsin's incredible dairy, cranberry and ginseng farmers who got hurt badly.  Been after that money for be able to manage their affairs, they get a lot of money.  She's always looking for money, "Could we have more money?" "What are you going to waste it on? I mean spend it on.  What are you going to waste it on, Mayor?" And then our people walk out, and these are people from all over the world, they walk, including Congress, by the way, they walk out and they get accosted, they get abused, they get spit on.  It's a disgrace.  And our country is going to change.  We're not going to allow We eliminated the most job destroying regulations in the history of our country.  I ended the job killing Paris climate accord.  That was a killer.  That was meant to hurt the United States.  By the way, in case you had any questions.  Today, the United States is the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth.  To give critically ill patients access to lifesaving cures we passed and hopefully anybody here doesn't need it.  Nobody here.  Uh-oh, do you need it? Uh-oh.  Don't raise that … Oh she law, they were ripping down a lot of statues about four months ago, and I said, "Do we have any laws, like old laws when they was strong, when we were smart, when we were tough?" "Sir, we have one, sir. " A General came in.  "What's the law, General?" "Sir, there was a law from quite a while ago, 10 years in prison. " They didn't use the word jail, prison.  Prison's a tougher word.  I said, "What do you mean, 10 years?" "You get 10 years in prison if you knock down a statue or room are… I mean, you know what's happening.  You know what's happening with your families.  You know what's happening with your jobs.  You've never had a time like this.  They always say, "Are you better off now than you were four years ago?" I mean, who is better off now? Everybody, I think.  Everybody.  But together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, "Made in the USA. Again, Again. " Comma.  I go comma again.  And that's what we're doing at a record clip.  They've never had a clip like this with the jobs and everything else.  You see the numbers.  On November 3rd, Nevada will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity, and we're doing it.  We're going to have a tremendous year next year.  Or whether we'll allow Joe Biden and the group of handlers to impose a $4 trillion tax hike, ban American energy, destroy our suburbs, demolish our second amendment, and indoctrinate your children the hell out of here.  This is getting embarrassing. " And nobody treated him worse than Kamala.  Right? She called him a racist.  She called him everything.  She was horrible to him.  And he says, "She was Kamala.  She's just great. " Oh, yeah.  These people, these people.  You're supposed to choose the people that did well.  She got out before Iowa, as I remember.  Right? She didn't want to run in Iowa, and then Bernie got … Again, this guy is the greatest loser ever because- No, no.  den. " You tell me.  And I didn't really see it.  And then I met with the police officers and fire departments and all the people that do.  And you just seem to have a bigger problem.  And by the way, the wall is being built.  That's- That's going to stop a lot of it.  The wall is being built.  Build the wall.  Build the wall.  Build the wall.  Build the wall.  Build the wall.  Build the wall.  Build the wall.  It's being built.  You advantage of by Canada.  You know, they have the wonderful, Oh, Canada, we love to hear the song, right? But let me tell you, they are very tough.  And they've taken advantage of our country for many, many years.  And I will tell you this, they're not so happy now, but at least they got a deal, but you're happy.  And it's about time you were happy.  You now have a great deal and you're not going to have your companies leaving for Mexico anymore or Canada.  And you're not going to have them settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industry, pioneered technology, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world.  And today it's greater than ever before.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  That's what we're doing.  That's what happened in 2016.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep  Biden voted for the Iraq war.  He opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden.  He opposed the killing of Soleimani.  He oversaw the rise of ISIS and he cheered the rise of China as a positive development for America and the world.  When I banned China from coming in, highly infected, he said it was hysterical and xenophobic.  If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died just by that one move alone.  When the- Thank you.  I agree, actually, but I don't think I'm they've given up on every other hoax, but it doesn't work that way.  You know it too.  You get it.  The democrat agenda of open borders places vast burdens on your communities, and your schools, and your hospitals, and public safety all at the expense of hardworking New Mexico families, and throughout our country.  Sheriffs, and commissioners from nine Mexico counties recently sent a letter to your state's congressional delegation begging them to vote for strong border security they want in New Mexico.  They don't want open borders.  They don't want criminals pouring into sorry to tell you this, men, they're going to sue me for discrimination now.  Women fill 60% of all of the new jobs created last year.  Women took 60%, what's wrong with you, men? What's wrong with you? But the radical Democrats are trying to destroy all of our country's tremendous achievement, and our country's tremendous success.  Unprecedented.  We've had unprecedented success.  Leaders come in from other countries, prime ministers, presidents, kings, queens, dictators.  Sometimes, I hate to say it, dictators, and they all start off by saying, "Mr.  President, I'd like to closed, it was gone, it was announced that it was closed.  And what really spurred me on was when Sleepy Joe announced that I was the one that did it.  I said, "I didn't even know it was closed. " But once I found out it was, I called the Commissioner.  He was really good, I tell you.  And we called a couple of the top people at the universities and they got it going.  It looked like we had seven schools, eight schools.  All of a sudden, everybody fell into line.  I a great structure.  It's a great structure.  You're going to have to really want to get over that wall, to do it.  But it was very interesting because, not too long ago, I saw where the Hispanic-American, the Hispanics, were up with me in a poll, 17%.  And everyone said, "How is that? How is that? How is that? 17%.  Up by 17%.  I won't even tell you what the final number was because they won't believe it, but you're going to see what the final number … But you know why? Because the never thought.  As an example, hundreds of billions of dollars have been and are coming into our country in the form of tariffs, and China is eating the cost, which the fake news doesn't want to tell you.  And out of the tens of billions of dollars that we've taken in, because of the fact that our great American patriot farmers have been targeted by China, they've been targeted, because they know the farmer is like Trump.  I love the farmers.  So they targeted the farmers, and I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, "Sonny, made in America.  And our country is winning again, and our country is highly respected again.  But while we are creating jobs and killing terrorists, the radical democrats are going totally insane.  They want to obliterate the rule of law, drive out faith from the public square, and you know this, silence you online, confiscate your guns.  You better be careful.  The Second Amendment very, very important, very precious.  They are after your Second Amendment.  With us, nobody's touching our Second Amendment.  And that includes the gentleman that's running against Matt.  and your president.  That's not nice, even for me.  She was describing the President of the United States and the presidency with the big fat vicious, the way she said it, vicious F-word.  That's not somebody that loves our country.  Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.  Check out her scores by the way, with her green new deal, the green new deal.  Where did that come from? She's conducted outrageous attacks against men and women of law enforcement, she compared American border agents managing a humanitarian crisis, that I always said was a humanitarian crisis, and they for some of these people to be on.  So far he's refused to do it.  I'm probably forcing him tonight to do something, but he should put out a list of his judges so that you know where you stand.  Biden supports cutting police funding, you know that, abolishing … and by the way, did you see, we just got Chicago police today endorsed Trump.  That's not easy to do.  Chicago.  New York's finest, New York's finest endorse, Florida, Ohio, Texas.  We have everybody.  Is there a police officer in the country, know, I haven't been doing this that long, so four years ago, I'm campaigning for president.  Everyone said, "No, he's only having fun. " Yeah, it's some fun.  This is a lot of fun.  Right? But for 45 years- But for 45 years they've been trying to get it Veteran's Choice.  So I come back one day, I say to my people, "I have the greatest idea.  I am so smart. " I am like the smart- I have an idea because the veterans are waiting online.  They're waiting online for two weeks, three no job and no taxes.  That's not happening anymore.  That's not happening anymore.  But do you remember how bad it was just before I took office? It was like an avalanche of companies leaving our country.  I also took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's rampant theft of Michigan jobs.  Biden has vowed to remove these tariffs and allow China to resume its pillaging.  Just so you know, China's paying us tens of billions of dollars a month.  Before me, China never paid anything.  They didn't pay us 25 couldn't get in, thousand.  We've got all the enthusiasm.  They're fighting each other.  They've gone so far left, nobody wants to even think about it.  So representative Omar, blames the United States, for the terrorist attacks on our country, saying that terrorism is a reaction to our involvement in other people's affairs.  She smeared US Service members involved in Black Hawk Down.  In other words, she slandered the brave Americans who were trying to keep peace in Somalia.  Omar minimized the September 11th attacks on our homeland, saying some people did something.  rest of the country, to the rest of the world, that the republican party, you know what we stand for.  But you see what's happening with the Democrats, they have gone crazy.  The do nothing Democrats, and they're not getting it done.  Under Republican leadership, the economy is booming, wages are rising, confidence is soaring.  Kentucky is thriving like never ever before, and America is stronger than ever before.  True.  Kentucky's unemployment rate has reached the lowest point in the history of our country.  That's not bad.  And I want to just " When the fake news would interview farmers, the farmers would say, "No, no, President Trump is doing the right thing.  It should have been done years ago.  Should've been done years and years ago. " But you couldn't have made it because there was too much money, $16 billion.  So, what I did is I put a 25% tariff on everything coming in from China, $250 billion, and then more tariffs on things beyond the $250 billion market.  We took in billions, and billions, and billions of dollars.  We still are, and then what paid him money to silence him because he has a very important voice.  Great job.  Yeah, I like that kind of a job.  I think he's okay with it.  He gets his check, they refuse to put him on.  He says good things about Trump.  We don't want you on.  That's CNN.  That's how fake right there.  Turn the camera on.  And a good friend of all of ours, a Kenosha native, Reince Priebus.  Reince, come up.  Thank you, man.  Thank you Reince.  This is a up to 60% less expensive than they were, and it's better healthcare.  A lot of people don't know this.  People don't know this.  They think that's their issue.  It's not.  They failed on healthcare.  We're protecting people with preexisting conditions, and we always will.  And by the way, we're trying to get rid of Obamacare, but we're managing it incredibly, but we're trying to get rid so we can give you a great healthcare plan and protect preexisting conditions.  Remember that.  We're trying to get rid of it, but while we're vote on my new trade deal, the US-Mexico-Canada agreement or USMCA.  After years of waiting, many, many years, many, many decades, they've been looking for this, and then we got it done and we've been waiting for a long time for Nancy Pelosi to announce USMCA and she did it on the same day that they announced that they are going to impeach the 45th president of the United States and your favorite president, I think.  And the reason they announced it on the same day, one hour later, they announce impeachment, a few guys standing behind her. but I have none, I said … I turned out to be right.  She choked and she went for a blood test.  Remember? Was it 1024th? Meaning maybe nine hundred years ago, there was a little action going on.  Crazy Pocahontas, she's a nasty one though, isn't she? She's a terrible person.  I was hoping that she'd win so we could go after her because I think Kamala is not as smart but she's a little bit less vicious.  I think this.  The one who treated Sleepy Joe the worst was Kamala.  She out of the hands of insane people and those who are mentally sick and shouldn't have guns.  But people have to remember, however, that there is a mental illness problem that has to be dealt with.  It's not the gun that pulls the trigger.  It's the person holding the gun.  Years ago, many cities and states, I remember it so well, closed mental institutions for budgetary reasons.  They let those people out onto the street.  You probably have your examples up here.  I can tell you in New York they closed so many  She said, "Dad, I'm going to come to Washington and help you.  I love you daddy, and we're going to help people.  I don't care and … " She was very successful in every way, and it's my daughter Ivanka.  I just want to thank this group of people.  And a man that helped, we just negotiated a major peace deal in the Middle East.  Everyone said it was impossible.  You know that, right? They said it's impossible.  They've been killing everybody for years and years, they had this guy, John Kerry, here.  Do you remember last year? Slightly different location, and that's okay, it was still the great state of Kentucky.  Because Andy Barr had Amy McGrath, an extreme liberal against him.  Andy Barr is here with us tonight, and we're going to introduce him, but he beat her.  So she said to herself, "Well, you know, I failed in Congress, now let's go for the Senate. " She wanted to go to the House, now she wants to go.  It's not going to work that way.  Extreme liberal, anti-gun, lots of different things.  black lives.  If Biden and the left gain power, they will dismantle police departments nationwide.  I'll tell you, the community that's most hurt, most hurt by what they're doing and there is the black community, the Hispanic community.  And we're doing great in the polls with the black community and the Hispanic community.  And the Asian community.  We're doing great.  In fact, we did so well last night on one poll, they said it must be a typo.  They did.  It must be an error.  It wasn't.  It's no error. beloved country.  This is the state where our founding fathers declared American independence, right? This is the state.  Such history, such history.  It's where the army, weathered it's brutal winter at Valley Forge, I know it well.  Where George Washington led his men on a daring mission across the Delaware and where our union was saved by the heroes of Gettysburg.  Gettysburg, one of the great, great, incredible sights of history, Gettysburg.  So vicious, so horrible and yet so beautiful and so historic, right? Incredible.  Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.  This is the place where from all over the world.  They're going to Michigan.  They're coming to Iowa.  They're buying your stuff again, like crazy, like crazy.  They're going to Ohio.  They're going to Pennsylvania.  They're going to South Carolina.  They're going to North Carolina.  They're going to Florida.  They're coming in like never before.  They're all coming back.  I ran on the issue trade.  I ran on a lot of different issues, but trade was one of them.  That was so big.  To me, it was so big.  I and if you look at the governor of Virginia, he was even talking about essentially you would say an execution.  He was talking after the baby is born, the doctor will talk to the mother and they'll make the decision as to whether or not that baby lives.  This is a radical Democrat idea.  That's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, and socialism.  They're building 10 miles a week and it'll be finished very soon.  And we have the most secure border in terms of drug trafficking, trafficking coming along and we've done phenomenally well.  Because that's a lot of the territory that we need.  We're going to go up to probably a little bit over 500 miles, so we're at 330.  But once they saw that I had it, they said, "Yeah, but Mexico's not paying for it. " But they are paying for it, Mexico's paying for the wall.  They are paying for it.  They're paying because that's the truth.  That's what they said.  "How did you vote?" Usually, they say, "I voted for Clinton," or, "I voted for Trump. " Right? "How'd you vote?" "None of your business. " See, I'm being nice, right? I'll keep it that way because otherwise we'll ruin the whole evening.  They'll say, "His language," right? Even this tough guy in the front says, "I agree. " "How did you vote?" "No, I don't want to tell you. " "How did you vote?" "None of your damn business.  I'm not going to tell you. " "How one point five billion dollars, Hunter.  And your father was never considered smart.  He was never considered a good Senator.  He was only a good vice president because he understood how to kiss Barack Obama's ass.  True.  Thank you.  Thank you.  It's true.  It's true.  And they're always saying the same thing.  Yeah, he got a billion five, we admit it, they admit it, it's nothing, but oh, it's not that same thing, president Trump made a totally unsubstantiated claim about Hunter Biden and his father.  It's not unsubstantiated, vets, I was going to rebuild your military, I was going to do all these things and you said, "I don't know.  That's a lot of …" You know what? I've actually done more than I promised.  Build a wall, build a wall, true.  I've done more.  For instance you never heard me say, you never heard me say, a lot of you were at various rallies, you never heard me talking about space force.  We built, think of it.  A new branch of the United States military, the United States Armed Forces called Me Too-ing him.  He was going to be Me Too-ed.  Right? Me-Too-ed.  A lot of bad things.  There was nobody.  Think of it, even Pocahontas treated him better.  She knocked the hell out of Bloomberg, but she left him sort of alone.  I think she felt sorry for him.  I heard she felt sorry for him.  I don't want people to feel sorry for our president.  I want other people, really, to feel sorry for themselves, because we have somebody that knows what they're doing.  We can't have it. whatever the radical left demands.  And if elected, his radical supporters won't just be causing mayhem on the streets.  They'll be running the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security.  And by the way, the United States Supreme Court.  And we will have a very different country.  You know, the next president probably will have anywhere one, two, three, or four Supreme Court justices.  If you want your second amendment, if you want life, if you want so many other things, even having to do with your military, even having to do with cowboys, innovators and trailblazers, tough people, great people who tamed the frontier, raised up the mighty Hoover Dam, lit up the brilliant lights of the Vegas Strip and transformed a sprawling desert into a shining oasis.  So true.  Our American ancestors made this into the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth.  And we are making it greater than it ever has been.  We are making it greater than ever before.  We are making it greater than it's ever been.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together so fast.  Since 2017 ICE has successfully arrested nearly a half a million illegal aliens with criminal records, including over 145,000 assaults, 40,000 sex offenses and 5,000 murderers.  If you don't mind, Democrats will bring them the hell out of our country, we'll get them out of here.  Some of them are so violent, we have to keep them.  We don't want to house them for 50 years, but if we let them go, they come back in, as much as we watch.  If they come back in, we don't want it, we don't want to get the governors to say please do it.  How they don't do it, how they don't do it in some other places when you look at what's going on with Chicago, right? When you look at what's going on with Portland, those are just anarchists.  You know how long it would take us to fix up Portland in terms of ending it all? I'd say far less than an hour, I'd say a half hour.  Look what we did at Minneapolis.  We're doing well in Minnesota because they saw what happened.  Now they shouldn't out to be a super V, but to put violent criminals behind bars and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China, because if we win, America wins and that's what it's about.  If we win, America wins.  Not only does Joe Biden want to eliminate your jobs, he wants to eliminate your borders.  He's promised to flood your state with refugees.  You know that as well as I do.  You see it all the time.  From terrorist hotspots around the world, including Syria, Somalia, and Yemen, Biden's pledged to have a free government healthcare.  They raised their hand in giving a lot of other things that I don't think you're going to be happy with, illegal aliens will be very nicely covered.  How about California, they just approved a $100 million? They just approved $100 million to take care of the needs of illegal immigrants, and then you look on the sidewalks of Los Angeles, the sidewalks of San Francisco, Nancy Pelosi's district, nobody's ever seen anything like it in the history of our country what's happening there.  So if you don't want Democrats to raid your healthcare, meantime, if you own a home on Beverly Hills, they scream at you if you want to water your grass a little bit, right? But you have no water coming in.  They divert millions and millions of gallons.  And what we've just done for the people of California is we've made it possible on a federal basis that they don't have to divert all that water anymore.  Now that's only good for California, but these are the things we do.  And now the last one is we're working on cars.  We're making them less expensive I think it was 31 different phones, they deleted.  These are criminals we're dealing with.  And they've got to… There has to be a repercussion.  There has to be a repercussion.  We're dealing with criminals.  So I don't care if you say it anymore because you know what? She illegally deleted, and her lawyers should go to jail with her, okay? And the fact is the Republican party doesn't play it rough and tough like those people, they don't play it the same way.  They're too nice.  And we have better policy.  are down 75% since May and the wall is going up at a very rapid pace.  The radical Democrats have gotten more and more extreme.  That's why they did this impeachment hoax, because Nancy Pelosi had absolutely no control.  She knew what was going to happen.  She knew.  The radical left has taken over the Democrat party.  Democrats are pushing for a socialist takeover of healthcare that would strip you of the doctor and coverage of your choice.  We have 180 million people with private healthcare that love it.  They're going to and send it over the public wires because they didn't want to be caught having an affair.  So they went over the public.  That was a very good thing for us.  Wasn't it? " Darling, darling, darling, please.  She's going to win.  She's going to win, isn't she? Peter, Peter only you can save us.  Peter, she's going to win.  Yes, darling.  She's going to win.  I know.  100,000 to nothing. " Remember that? It was actually 100 million to one.  This was a hundred million to one.  he's in first place, so he's very happy, the RNC Finance Chairman, Todd Ricketts.  Where is Todd? Todd, thank you.  Great.  Go win that pennant Todd.  Win the pennant.  One of the best people ever to work for me … One of the best people ever to work for me in government.  He's tough, he's smart, he can be vicious, but he's just fair more than anything else.  But he is a talented guy with tremendous energy and tremendous brain power, Rick Grenell.  Thank you, Rick.  Thank you Don.  Thank I want to put him and Jim Jordan in a match together, I want to.  Kevin Hern, great job today, Kevin.  The great Jim Jordan, Jim Jordan.  Elise Stefanik.  Lee Zeldin.  Tom Emmer.  Tom, thank you.  These are warriors, folks.  These are great warriors.  During the fake impeachment trial, I'll tell you what.  There was nobody that could have done the job they've done.  That includes the Senate and the House.  These people are incredible.  David Kustoff.  David.  A great friend of mine.  Debbie was the single greatest debate they've ever seen.  Winston Churchill was nothing compared to Sleepy Joe.  You know that, you know that, they're going to say, "What a great performance.  He was great today.  He was great.  This guy was great. " Nah, he's not great.  But your governor tried to stop us.  He tried to stop us.  The governor of Nevada, he tried to stop us, and we went to different venues.  Kelly O'Donnell, she's a fading reporter for NBC.  Do you know that? She was on, she said, us to have the wall.  They knew it worked.  Many of them voted five years ago for a wall.  They just didn't know how to get it built.  I do.  But what happened is through a series of court cases and other things, the money has won, and we are now building that beautiful wall, and this powerful border wall is going up at record speed and we just reached over 100 miles of wall, and by next year, we'll be over 400 miles, and shortly thereafter it will be complete.  A lot of want your oil or natural gas anymore?" How about that Beto? Remember he said, "I was born to be President. " Anybody that says that, I said, "That's the end of his career. " Remember, he had the cover of the magazine? I won't mention the magazine, sleazebag magazine.  He was born to be President, and right after that, he came tumbling down, but he's from Texas, so he was against religion, he was against oil, and he was against guns.  Abraham Lincoln could not win in Texas with that platform.  That's not a good platform.  keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of New Hampshire, the best is yet to come.  Together we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again and we will make America great again.  Thank you, New Hampshire.  Thank a few years ago, they would have been in a panic.  Today we got a lot of oil, we got a lot of gas.  We got a lot of oil and gas.  We don't have to send too many boats over there.  Did you notice the other day, they were saying, "We don't see too many American ships anymore. " You know why? Because we don't need … We're independent, as independent as we want.  And we are now a net exporter of energy.  Revenues from energy production provide up to 25% of your we are removing from our country by the thousands, were charged with relentlessly beating a wonderful, beautiful high school teenager to death with a baseball bat and chopping the body apart with a machete.  One of the animals accused was previously released by local authorities in defiance of an ICE demand.  ICE warned and said, "You can't let them go. " They wanted them.  They would do anything for them.  They wanted them to hand this animal over for deportation back to his country.  Get them the hell out of our country, right? Democrats' sanctuary walls do work.  I hate to say, remember the Democrats, "You don't need walls. " Oh really? "We need drones. " They wanted us to put drones flying around, taking pictures of everybody.  Now, did you see on part of the new wall two days ago, illegal aliens with drugs on their back were climbing the wall.  They got to the top.  You know that paddle on top is called a climb resistor.  It's very slippery and very hot, very hot, and they got stuck on the wall.  They couldn't get off the wall. 2 million, two and a half, or three million people.  Think of it.  We're at like around 180,000.  One is too many.  One, too many.  But we would've had two and a half, three, three and a half million people.  It would not have been acceptable, would not have been sustainable.  We've done an incredible job.  And these people that have done it with me, the ventilators, the vaccines, the therapeutics, these people … I mean the hospitals, the beds that we built, the ships that we sent to New York, the can't do anything.  You can't use it.  They won't let you use it.  Now I have you sign an agreement, you're not going to sue the United States, you're not going to this, your family, et cetera, et cetera.  Very simple.  And they can use it.  You have no idea the results that are taking place.  You have no idea.  You have no idea the results.  People's lives are being … For me it was simple.  I said, "Wait a minute, you're worried about hurting somebody? These people are dying. this.  This is the greatest movement in the history of our country.  I really believe that.  Never been a movement like this.  I mean, there have been some great movements where somebody came along and out of nowhere won the state of New Hampshire, won Iowa, won South Carolina down the way, won a state some place.  But we won 32 states.  There's never been a movement like this, never happened before.  But we're a movement for all Americans who believe in fairness and justice, equality and dignity, opportunity and safety.  We Try going and buying a new faucet.  You turn it on, no water comes out, right? We won't talk about toilets, but you know that's … 10, 15, but we don't talk about that.  Because I've said this three or four times, the only subject they ever talk about is toilets, so I don't mention … but how about the shower? You go into a shower, and I have this beautiful head of hair, I need a lot of water.  I need water.  You go into the shower, right? You turn on the water, drip, drip, I want to start.  Come on up here, Governor Doug Ducey.  Come on up here, Doug.  Come on up here.  You're going to speak in a second.  Also, I call them warriors because they fought like hell.  They worked with our future Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy.  But we have some of your great warriors.  Paul Gosar, come up here, Paul.  Come up here.  Andy Biggs.  Andy Biggs, head of the Freedom Caucus.  Andy Biggs.  David Schweikert.  David, come up here.  A big, big trying to do so.  And now what's going to happen is we'll have it, and people won't want to take it.  That's really bad.  Okay? That's really bad.  But the Biden-Harris effort to spread anti-vaccine conspiracy theories only because they know we're close to putting it out, getting it out, and we're going to get it out fast.  The vaccine will be safe.  These are the greatest companies in the world to do this, the greatest labs, the greatest doctors, it'll be effective and it'll be delivered before the end of the year.  on Mars.  We will defend privacy, free speech, and you know this.  You know it's under siege, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will defend it.  It's under siege.  It's under siege.  You see it in Virginia.  They want to take away the guns.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one beautiful America.  We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  we stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We think he might've even gone to jail for a period of time for doing something that was really very understandable.  Rosie O'Donnell.  Five times what she did is incredible.  Nothing happens.  And then she gets on and says, what a bad guy I am.  I'm not a bad guy, but it's really a disgrace.  You know, it's a disgrace.  I'm glad they didn't do anything with it, frankly because you know what to do for something like that.  But you know what? We have two sets of justices in this country.  I want to support and salute law enforcement in the United States.  These are great people.  These are great people and they don't get the credit that they deserve, but you know what? I tell them all the time, you have no idea how much the American people, the American public, you have no idea how much they love you and respect you, law enforcement.  In the recent democratic debate, every single candidate, everyone, Biden was a little bit slower with the hand, it didn't work so well.  They raised their hand in favor of giving and destroy their magnificent heritage.  Our allegiance is to our nation.  Our loyalty is to our citizens.  And our devotion is to our Creator.  For the sake of our freedom, for the sake of our children, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement.  We are one people.  We are one family and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of Kentucky, to go through upper New York State and create a lot of jobs for them, you have the highest energy prices in the United States by far.  Thank you New York.  Thank you.  Thank you Governor Cuomo.  Biden voted for the Iraq war.  I was against the Iraq war.  He opposed a mission to take out Osama bin Laden.  He opposed the killing of Soleimani.  You remember that one? He oversaw the rise of ISIS and he cheered the rise of China as a positive development for America and for the world. 12%, all different tariffs.  We took in billions and billions, and I said, "You know what we're going to do? We're going to take, of that, the 12 and the 16, $28 billion and we're going to give it to our farmers who were targeted," and our farmers are doing great.  That's what we did.  Do you think Joe Biden would do that? He wouldn't have a clue.  Hillary wouldn't have had a clue.  Crazy Bernie wouldn't have, nobody would add a clue on that one.  By the way, we had tens of billions and very badly with our military.  So we removed a lot of soldiers out of Germany.  They're not happy, they said, "This is going to hurt our economy. " Well it's good for our economy, okay? They thought it was going to hurt the German economy.  Well, they don't treat us right, they don't pay their bills, they're delinquent.  You know what delinquent is? They're delinquent.  They don't pay their bills.  We protect them, they don't pay their bills.  We got to do something and they treat us horribly on trade through the to give them a little bit of extra energy and they will be able to build a car that consumers can buy which will be better than the car they make today.  And you'll save 3,500 dollars, think of that.  It will be safer, it will be better, you can save 3,500 dollars, it will be less costly.  And we're going to try to get that done.  And then they were forcing you to buy light bulbs that cost a fortune, so I signed something a couple days ago that gives you the right to continue picked it up and they said, "President Trump said every family coming into our country illegally gets a brand new free Rolls Royce.  He lied.  He lied.  He lied. " They gave me a Pinocchio.  They don't get it, Matt, do they, Matt? Actually they get it better than we understand.  They get it very well.  They get it.  They know what's happening.  And the wall is being built.  I will tell you the wall is being built.  And you know they went after us on everybody knows the wall Court victory yesterday on immigration.  We will now be finally able to enforce federal law, and ensure that those seeking admission to our country are able to support themselves financially and not abuse taxpayer funded programs.  They were killing our country, killing our country.  Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are right now.  Frankly, they're crazy.  These people are crazy.  They're taking their cues from socialists like Bernie.  Left-wing lawmakers are pushing a government takeover of health care that would strip 180 million Americans of their private health care plans, we lifted 6. 6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any President in the history of our country.  We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and we are doing it again.  We're building it again.  I see the signs "Make America Great Again," so I say this, it's called now "Make America Great Again.  Again".  Because we did it and then we had to close it up.  We saved millions of lives.  If we didn't do that, you would have had three million people.  you go outside, you get a private doctor, you get fixed up and they pay your bill.  We take care of the bill.  We take care of the bill and you get immediate service.  It's never happened before.  And our approval rating at the V. A.  is now 91%, that's how good it is.  Never been anywhere near that number.  Never been anywhere near that number.  And V. A.  accountability, we had a lot of bad people in the V. A.  People that didn't love our vets, people that were even close.  We're doing it on a daily basis, and we'll soon be setting records in every one of the aspects of border security.  Border security is vital to the United States.  Border security is vital to India.  We understand that.  We are further taking unprecedented action to finally secure our southern border and stop illegal immigration.  I want to thank the president of Mexico, who right now has 27,000 soldiers on our southern border.  It's been incredible what's taken place in a short period of time.  Illegal immigration is deeply unfair crazy.  It's crazy, it's crazy.  You know what they do? It's suppression polls.  They try and depress you.  They try and make you unhappy so you go out to dinner with your wife, your husband, you go out to dinner, "Darling, let's have dinner.  It's so sad.  We love Donald, but he just can't make it.  He can't make it.  Let's go out, have dinner.  We'll come home and watch the results. " Except 2016 came and nobody did that, they all went out and voted and we kicked ass.  to finally take care of our own.  And we're all so aggressively combating the opioid epidemic, which is horrible.  And as a result of our nonstop efforts, and billions and billions of dollars invested, last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths, and it was a very big decline in nearly three decades.  30 years.  And at the center of America's drug crisis, this is where the Hispanics know it better than anybody.  People said, "Oh, the Hispanics won't like a wall. " I said, "I think they're going to love party of late term abortion, socialism and corruption.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American Dream, and of course, honest Abe Lincoln, right? Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, religion, color, and creed.  We are a movement.  There's a movement like nobody's ever seen before.  You know, when I mention this, anything I say that's even slightly false, it's headlines.  "Trump said this.  These people.  He said this. " This is one of the greatest … I would say fortune, because they don't like me much.  You will see drug prices, prescription drugs, dropping 50, 60, 70% in a very short period of time.  Favored nations clauses.  We will strongly protect Medicare and Social Security, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.  America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  You have to see what we've done with NASA.  We'll be the first one on Mars, I hope.  We will stop the radical indoctrination we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  And together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you.  Thank you, Pennsylvania.  Thank you. Hello, Houston.  I am so thrilled to be here in the great state $1 billion.  I'm not giving it.  You get them out.  And guess what? They got them out.  Here's your billion dollars.  Now that's called quid pro quo.  Right? That's the real deal.  With us, there was none.  They made it up.  Remember when Shift made the phony speech? Eight times he said the same thing, except that's not what happened.  Fortunately, we had those wonderful people that write every perfect word, every word.  I'm glad we had them because we're dealing with a bunch of thieving bad people.  taken away.  Under the Democrats plan all of those people that are thrilled where they went out and negotiated cross state lines, all of the things they did, they went out, negotiated great private plans, it's all going to be taken away from you under this plan.  Now, I only hope they don't change because we're talking too soon, we got a year and a half left.  It's like when I called Pocahontas, Pocahontas, I should've waited six months because she then went out and got that test.  1024th, and I've always said I have more safe communities, great jobs, a bright future, the American dream for all Americans.  There is no limit to what we can achieve with four more years.  So in conclusion, I have to say this.  Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing super power of the world that's happening already.  We will end our reliance on China once and for all.  We'll do it here.  Like we used to do in the good old days before we owed trillions of dollars.  We will hire more police, increase penalties for compete for your business.  We are repealing burdensome taxes.  We have accomplished more than any President in the first three years of their term by far, not even close.  We have provided health insurance options, 60% cheaper than Obamacare, and we have historic investments in treating kidney disease, HIV, pediatric cancer and Alzheimer's disease.  We're making so much progress.  We have just passed a thing that I think is great.  I never understood.  For 45 years, they've been trying to get it passed.  We've just passed a thing called Right to Try. investigations, where they have the worst human beings in the world. " They worked for the Democrats.  They worked… I mean, Mueller didn't have a clue.  This guy was totally… But look at this Weissmann, how bad was Weissmann? He deleted his phone.  That's illegal.  He deleted everything.  They all deleted.  And they all said, "Oh gee, we made a mistake.  We're sorry. " They all used the same mistake.  They all made… It was, "Oh gee, we didn't mean to do that. " Every one of them, all of them.  stopped 99. 9% of the people coming in.  And the only reason I'm not moving it to New Mexico is that it would cost more money to move it than to build you a brand new, beautiful wall, so I'll give you a brand new beautiful wall.  … New beautiful wall, I'll give you a brand-new one.  It's true.  It's true.  I actually priced it out.  It's true.  These contractors, all my life I've been deal… They can find a way to make money.  "Sir, it'll cost more money to move the outside sites, like last night.  Tremendous room.  And a great gentleman who owns this building said, "You know what? What they're doing is really unfair.  You can use my building, Don.  I want to thank you, Don. " I want to thank you.  This is the most important election in the history of our country.  At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, two agendas for the future.  Joe Biden has spent the last 47 years selling out America.  Look at what he's lost in court. " They said, "Where?" "On the travel ban. " And he's right.  I lost, and then I lost at the appellate division, and then I won at the United States Supreme Court.  Right? And he knew that, but he said I lost on the… And he was right.  I lost, and then I lost again, but then I won, and we have the travel ban.  But instead of saying, "He lost, and then he lost at the appellate, and then he won at the United States Supreme Court," he said, "He lost on  A suburbanite, thank you, thank you.  No, it's true.  I don't know.  But I heard the same thing four years ago, remember? " Women will not vote for him. " Then we win the election, it's like, they're all in shock.  Well, what took place? "Well, he did very well with women," what the hell was that all about, right? Did very well.  Women were great.  Now, if it holds true … There a lot of jobs, a lot of jobs, a lot of great thinking, but he wants to give free healthcare