 So he'll say, "You know, off the record, I got to hurry up because everyone's watching me in the hallway on my cell phone, off the record they've got the number one terrorist in the world, Soleimani, and they're going to get him, they're going to take him out in the next 10 minutes.  Please, don't tell anybody I told you. " So we have breaking news, President Trump within the next 20, 25 minutes, looks to be taking out terrorist General Soleimani.  He's going to do it.  It should be happening in about the next want that. " "You got it. " "We want that. " Say no and walk.  They'll probably possibly call you back and if they don't that's okay too.  But right now I will tell you Iran, if we win, Iran will be calling us within the first week, they're dying to make a deal.  GDP down 27%.  They don't have too much money for terror anymore, it's actually amazing, do you notice what's going on? Now I don't want to speak too loud, but I did put out on social media the other day that if it's true.  Over the next four years to conclude, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world.  And we will end our reliance on China once and for all.  We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States.  We will rapidly return to full employment, soaring economies and a record prosperity, even greater than last year.  We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities and ban sanctuary cities.  We will appoint prosecutors, judges, justices, and believe… We produced 250,000 jobs.  For us, we got nothing.  We got losses, we got nothing.  It was a terrible deal, I renegotiated, now it's a good deal.  They also gave and want to give mass amnesty for illegal aliens.  Biden supported cutting Social Security.  He voted for the Iraq War, he opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden.  He opposed the killing of Soleimani, when I did that, he said, "That's a terrible thing.  That's a terrible thing. " Everybody in the Middle East, they couldn't believe it.  They celebrated, That's what it is.  Before the election, our factories were closing.  Hey, who knows it better than you? You're like central casting for the closing of factories.  Our jobs were vanishing.  Our military was totally depleted.  When I took over, our military was sad.  We weren't flying half of our planes, they were old.  They were tired.  Our equipment was tired.  Our people weren't tired, though.  Our people weren't tired.  But everything we had, it was depleted.  Now we've rebuilt our military like never before.  And all  But if you want to vote for a weak candidate tomorrow, go ahead.  Pick one.  Pick the weakest one you think, I don't know who it is.  We are a big party with big ideas for the future.  Very big.  We become a big party and an open-minded party and we're the party that people like.  We're the hot party and we're the party with all the enthusiasm.  We are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.  Right? word.  That's the word.  I stand before you today to declare the silent majority is stronger than ever before.  Five months from now, we're going to defeat sleepy Joe Biden.  Boy, does he get a pass from these people, huh? We're going to stop the radical left.  We're going to build a future of safety and opportunity for Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed.  Republicans are the party of liberty, equality, and justice for all.  We are the party of Abraham Lincoln and we are the party of law and order. want this. " "Nope.  We're not giving to you. " "Okay, let's go on to the next one.  Give me this. " "Nope. " "Give me this. " "Nope. " "Give me this. " "Nope. " He never won a point, he lost everything.  It's the worst deal I've ever seen.  And the only time he left the table is to go on a bicycle ride and he crashed and broke his leg and his arm.  And I promised everybody I would never go riding in a bicycle race.  I swear to you.  and concrete.  We need steel.  Inside those poles we have rebar and we have concrete and they're 30 feet tall.  We need all sorts of things.  We need them to be wired. " I won't tell you why they're wired, but they're wired for a reason.  They're all wired up and they're incredible.  But you know what? We got the wall.  Nobody could have done it.  So once we had the wall and it started going up and then we hit a hundred miles, 200 miles, now we're at 330, and we're of all of the nations, "Does that mean if we don't … " Because I said, "You got to pay your bills.  We're protecting you.  You're not paying your bills. " Some did, like Poland and some others, but most didn't.  Six to eight were current, and we were paying much more than we should have been paying, much more.  I mean, it's Europe.  We got to defend ourself, and there was no guarantee that they'd help us if we ever had a problem.  Right? We're never going to have a problem.  We you.  It's about your family, your future and the fate of your country.  That's what we did in 2016, they came from the hills and valleys, they came from the cities, they came from all over the place and people were saying, these fakers back there, they were saying, "What the hell is happening?" But I knew it was going to happen because we go out and we see these rallies, the likes of which no one has ever seen before ever, ever, ever in politics, ever in politics.  A vote for any Democrat in 2020 and great gentleman who loves the Republican Party, co-chairman, Tommy Hicks.  Tommy, what a job.  New Mexico Republican party chairman.  Steve Pearce.  My friend and a really talented guy, he just gets the hell knocked out of him all the time.  Brad Parscale.  What a job he's doing, Brad.  Great job, Brad.  Great job.  And another great friend of mine, somebody that was on CNN, and they didn't like him because he was too positive on Trump.  Can you believe it? He happens to be Hispanic.  He happens to be the beast.  What you don't know is the beast costs almost as much as the plane.  It's a hell of a car.  It's a walking army tank, the beast.  But we could have.  I said, "Why don't we just land here?" And we couldn't.  So I get off the plane.  Oh, good.  "How long will it be?" "About 50 minutes. " That's a long drive.  And driving here, there were tens of thousands of people on the streets with flags.  And then you read these fake reporters and they say, screaming, " Yes, yes. " And started telling everybody.  They said, "Wait a minute.  Wasn't she just a juror?" The woman was totally biased.  How do you do this? So I fight.  Look, I fight.  A lot of times it's not worth it, but I got to fight for fairness.  I got to fight for fairness.  Got to fight for fairness.  It's a very unfair system.  I guess it's called the swamp.  When I said drain the swamp, it was a nice phrase.  I never liked the phrase.  of our country.  And one of the largest cattle orders in the history of our country, because they're very smart.  Somebody else would have said, well, let's not do business.  And then it would have been easy for me, but they gave us so much.  I have every farmer calling up saying, please do me a favor.  We love this.  We love this.  This is a great deal.  It's a great deal, but we feel differently about it, don't we? We just feel differently about it.  I don't talk about it You saw an example of that a couple of days ago.  So we seek friends, not enemies, but if you dare to threaten our citizens, you do so at your own grave peril.  We've never had a military, what we have now, we've never had anything like it.  We were looking at planes that were old and tired, 50, 60-year-old planes.  You've heard the story, the grandfather flew them, the son flew them, the current wonderful person flew them, the whole family flew them.  Those are all gone now, folks.  Those are all gone. the way, you know who's further left than crazy Bernie? Kamala, Kamala, Kamala.  You remember she left the race.  Sort of interesting that they picked her because in theory, they should be able to win in California.  I don't know.  Maybe we'll make a play for that one too.  But they picked somebody from California.  I don't quite get it, but you always pick somebody that's hot.  That's going up in the polls, going up.  Frankly, I'm not sure.  I don't think I've ever said this, but probably Hillary should have "Why did you get it?" Because it was like, he just became President, and they said, "We're going to nominate Barack Hussein Obama for the Nobel Peace award, right? And what happened? And then Biden said, "What about me?" They said, "Who the hell is he? This guy, what the hell has he done?" But it's true.  Obama got it for no reason whatsoever.  Rick, you know that? No reason whatsoever.  Joe Biden brought you only endless wars, I'm bringing you peace and I'm bringing our troops back home.  They're all coming back.  Endless wars. he's got the circles.  You knowthose big circles? You know why he has the circles? He's got four of them, because they can't … I mean, think of it.  He is a guy who's failed every time he ran.  We called him 1% Joe and now he's shot and he got their nomination.  How the hell does that work out? How does that work out? But he's got the circles.  He got like four, sometimes he has six because that's a good way of saying, if you don't have any people, just put them in  They're seriously ill people and they're on the streets.  We can't make it harder for good, solid law abiding citizens to protect themselves.  We will always uphold the right to self defense and we will always uphold the second amendment.  We will.  So important.  One of the most powerful promises I made to the people of this state was to confront the opioid and drug epidemic.  I used to go around New Hampshire more than any state and you'd say, "Sir, the state is infested. " You said, "Sir, we'll like a drug crooked as hell.  We have a double-sided justice.  It's very unfair what's going on.  Very unfair.  But let's see how it all works out, folks.  Let's see how it all works out.  I hope you're going to be happy.  I hope you're going to be happy, because there are a lot of dishonest slimeballs out there.  Dishonest scum.  Dirty cops, a lot of dirty cops.  By the way, the FBI, those guys in that are incredible.  But the ones on top, they were absolute scum.  What they were that to me, Michigan.  Don't do that.  Biden supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization, which, by the way, was a disaster.  China was flatlining for years and years and decades and it got into this World Trade Organization with all sorts of advantages.  Just a terrible, terrible situation took place.  That's when China became a big, powerful economic power.  But, if you look at the numbers just before the plague, now, the numbers are different, we were going up, up, up, we were beating them like a drum.  They weren't even  That happens to him all the time, hasn't happened to me yet.  When that happens, there's nothing you can do to make up for it.  You might as well just walk off the stage because the speech is a disaster.  Right, right.  But we just turned the United States into the dominant energy super power of the world, of the world.  And because of the Chinese virus, what happened about three months ago, it looked like we were in big trouble and we were, and I got it back together.  I called Russia. it was more painful.  Dead.  Cut them up with a knife because it's more painful.  It takes longer than shooting a gun.  They cut them up.  I said, "These are animals. " And Nancy Pelosi said, "These are human beings.  They're not animals. " If I lose an election over that, you know what? This country is in big trouble.  They want to disarm law, abiding citizens and dismantle our police forces while freeing vicious MS-13 gang members.  In Joe Biden's America, rioters, looters, and criminal aliens have more rights than law for abuse, for destruction.  I came down to Washington with incredible people.  We won a great political campaign.  They were bright eyed and bushy tailed.  that's a nice phrase.  They came down, they were happy.  They wanted to turn the country around.  They wanted to do great things.  All of a sudden they get summoned and they get subpoenaed by Robert Mueller.  How good was he as a witness? Not too good and by people that were, I call them the 13 angry Democrats, that turned into 18 angry Democrats.  bugging me to go back to Michigan and speak just one more time every week? One more time, sir. " And her name is Ronna McDaniel.  She's fantastic, and she's the head of the RNC.  She's great.  And our campaign manager, a man who's really been… They used to say that Crooked Hillary had a very very sophisticated campaign.  After she lost, they said, "I guess it wasn't sophisticated. " We had a sophisticated campaign.  Nobody knows the world of computers better than this guy.  Brad Parscale.  Remember when they used to say police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities, and we will ban sanctuary cities.  We will appoint prosecutors, judges and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda.  We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion and creed.  We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms.  And you're lucky I'm here because you're Second Amendment would be gone if I wasn't. say, "What are you doing here?" And he goes, "Mr.  President. " See now he calls me Mr.  President.  He used to call me something else.  "Mr.  President, I'm fighting for your victory. " I said, "You got to be kidding. " He goes, "Honestly, you're doing a great job, but also if this radical left gets in they're going to take away everything, and they're going to destroy our country. " And for the first time I like this guy.  My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor Guard; and now, we have the Space Force.  You know what a big deal, first time in 75 years, it's a new one.  Last one was 75 years ago.  The Air Force, right.  That's a big thing.  I never talked about that on the campaign, I never even thought about it.  When I became president, I said, "We have to do this. " Because I saw what Russia was doing, and I saw what China was doing.  And, they've created their Space Forces, I said, "What are we going to do?, not have They go back and they write.  President Trump said that Obama should be impeached, but he's not in office and so therefore they can't impeach.  He doesn't know what he's talking about because he's not in office, so therefore they can't.  So, you have to be very careful.  That's why I use the word belated impeachment.  Belated, meaning I'm just kidding, okay? They do it all the time.  They had it the other day.  I said, "bring back Gone With The Wind," right? I said a little bit up here, but I said But people don't want to see it and the ratings are down.  Here we go again.  I thought we taught them that lesson two years ago.  Didn't we think? I thought we taught that lesson.  But Biden would absolutely eradicate your state's economy.  I know this state very well.  It's one of the reasons I made the great deal with Canada and Mexico, but Canada, because they were taking advantage of you so badly on your dairy products.  You had a 287% tariff on your dairy products with Canada.  People don't realize you to pick the people on the list, not somebody like the people on the list. " So I went back the next week, I said, "I will pick somebody that's on this list. " And they were all great, great judges for the most part, I think almost entirely, but judges and really respected conservative believers in our country, solid, incredible people.  And as soon as I did that, things went through the roof.  It was amazing how important it was.  By the way, would you stand up with that beautiful jacket? I love this guy. vast number of people here, and they were going to fight.  I said, if they're going to fight like they have been for hundreds and hundreds of years, for centuries, let them fight.  But we're getting the hell out of there, okay? But the fake news doesn't tell you the right story.  But the fake news doesn't tell you the right story.  Because what I did is I took our soldiers, and you know what I did? I moved them to the oil area, and we now control the oil.  So they said Trump stayed of the most successful lawyers in New York.  He's a brilliant guy.  He loves Israel.  Right? Love Israel.  I call him.  He's the ambassador, he's there.  I said, "David, they want to spend 1. 1 billion on a damn one-story embassy.  It's crazy. " I said, "Would you take a look? Maybe we own some land. " We own a lot of land.  We've been there a long time.  Calls me back.  He said, "Let me take a look at it, sir. " He calls me the next day.  that's the way it is.  That's why I always say you have to thank yourself because nobody else is going to do it.  We're fighting to give school choice to every child in America who needs it.  During National School Choice Week, we reaffirmed that no parent should be forced to send their child to a failing government school.  School Choice, very important.  Democrats don't want that.  To uphold the rule of law, we have confirmed 191 brand new beautiful federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written.  And two great Supreme hold the first rally of 2020 right here in the great state of Ohio.  And as we begin the new year, our economy is booming, wages are soaring, workers are thriving, and America's future has never, ever looked brighter, ever.  We're the envy of every country in the world.  We've created seven million brand new jobs since our election.  And we will soon be replacing the disaster known as NAFTA with the incredible brand new USMCA, the historic victory for Ohio farmers, workers, and manufacturers, but really a great victory for the United States.  It's money, with financial.  She thinks I'm just horrible.  In the last three years, I'm up 94%, sir.  She thinks I'm a total genius when it comes to finance.  She loves me again.  She didn't love me before, sir.  She loves me again. " That tells you something about money, doesn't it? The first step to victory in November is tomorrow.  Go send a message that Republicans… And you can vote for the weakest candidate if you want.  Don't worry about it.  I don't really think we actually have a candidate against  I don't think so … President Trump may have a slim lead in Ohio? They're not even campaigning in Ohio, come to think of it.  Now, they're fake polls.  They're almost as fake as the writers themselves.  They're all fake.  Remember last time they said, "No, he's going to lose Ohio. " We won by nine points.  So, we had seven swing states last time.  President Trump is going to go home early, but it wasn't president at that time, it was just Donald Trump.  He will go home early.  We "I know, but that was a big strain because my eyes, I couldn't see the teleprompter. " This guy is the worst.  I am… And you know, it's going to maybe come back to haunt me because we have a rigged election.  It's a rigged election.  It's the only way we're going to lose, but I'll tell you what, he is the worst candidate in the history of Presidential… He is the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics.  He doesn't know he's alive.  He doesn't know he's alive.  And I got to extremists without any charges.  No charges.  Never saw anything.  By the way, all of these places were talking about are Democrat- run, Chicago, New York, Portland, Seattle.  The only reason Seattle got settled, because they knew we were going in.  We told them, "we're going in tomorrow morning.  We're going to open it up.  We're going to take it. " It would have taken us 20 minutes.  So they sent people that night, because they didn't want to be embarrassed.  But look at what we've done.  And so, every place it.  To fight the China virus we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II.  We did an A+ job, except we did a D job in terms of public relations, explaining it because we were too busy doing it.  But the fact is they wouldn't have written it anyway.  It didn't matter to them.  It's there.  It's their little thing.  You have a watch Biden? He can't talk about it he thinks, so he gets up, "The coronavirus," they say, "We want to talk about Supreme Court judge today. " Well, " I'm xenophobic? I wanted it closed and nobody else did.  At that time, nobody else did.  I was way early.  You know, they say, "He didn't act fast. " I was months early.  Nancy Pelosi was a month and a half later saying, "Come to Chinatown.  Let's come to Chinatown. " And Sleepy Joe was totally … He thought what I was doing was terrible.  Then all of a sudden, now I see him saying, "He should have closed it earlier. " This guy … You know, the great thing about the age  And he was right about that because nobody else does either.  They still don't know, but we've done a lot of things.  So we were nominated a few days ago for a Nobel Prize, which is a big thing.  Nobel Peace Prize.  And then yesterday we were nominated a second time for another Nobel Prize.  Now, that's a big thing.  To me, it's a big thing, even though obviously it's a very political thing, but it's a very big thing.  The Nobel Peace Prize, right? I got, it was just reported.   Minneapolis, they don't want to have police.  They don't want to have police.  What's going to happen? You saw the commercial we put up.  A woman's being murdered.  "I'm sorry.  We cannot take your call right now.  We will call you back within the next 24 hours. " A woman's being raped, right? "I'm sorry.  We could not respond right now because we have been defunded, but we will try getting there within the next week. " This is what you're going to have.  I mean, that was a strong commercial. the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln.  You know that, right? Abraham Lincoln.  Honest Abe.  Remember I always said, "I can be more presidential than any other past president, other than perhaps Abraham Lincoln when he's wearing the hat," right? Because it's easy to be presidential but only have about three people in front of me.  Be a, "Good evening ladies and gentlemen.  Is everything okay in Iowa? Oh I see, the world is ripping you off.  Well there's not a thing I can do about that.  Thank the China virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II.  Thanks to the life- saving therapies that we pioneered, the mortality rate has been reduced by 85% since April.  Think of that.  We've achieved among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country, anywhere in the world.  You never hear that from the fake news.  They don't want to talk to you about it.  This is a big country.  This is a tougher country to do that with, the European Union's case fatality rate is nearly three times said women don't like Trump.  I said, I think they do.  I think they do.  They said women don't, and then we did great with women.  And remember that great.  Was that one of the greatest evenings ever? Four years ago.  That was one of the greatest.  But one of the things they did, first of all, we did much better.  Now we're doing really well.  African American vote, much better Hispanic vote, much better.  He did better with African Americans than we thought.  He did better with Hispanic 95%.  Does anybody want to pay 95% taxes? I don't think so.  But I'm not going to go into their plan because as far as I'm concerned, the green new deal is a beautiful thing.  No, it's a beautiful thing.  We want it to continue onward until about a month before the election.  I will let them have it like you've never heard before.  I don't want it to change.  Too early.  It's like Elizabeth Warren.  I did the Pocahontas thing.  I hit her really hard, and it looked like privacy, free thought, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  And when you see those lunatics all over the streets, it's damn nice to have arms.  Damn nice.  Interesting how all of a sudden people understand it, right? You couldn't sell it.  Now people understand it.  The right to keep and bear arms, we'll protect your second amendment.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, we will support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  out.  "No. " They said, "No, it'll never make it. " There's nobody like this guy, I'm telling you.  I always say it's a great sport.  Without him, I don't know what they'd do.  I don't know if anything would make it… He could do anything.  He is so smart, so tough, so cunning.  He's been a friend of mine for a long time, I've been a friend of his, but I gave him a place a long time ago.  And all I know is, just like we have outside, we had lines. single promise that I made, and now I'm doing it with the drug companies.  I just created Favorite Nation.  So if a nation buys it for less and they buy it for a fraction of what we pay, the drug companies have to sell it to us for the same price.  And they're spending so much.  They're spending millions of dollars on advertising.  Anytime you see an ad from a drug company, and they're rich, the farmer, it's called Big Farmer, the number one lobbyist.  They spend millions and millions, hundreds of millions of come up with legislation that if you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year.  One year.  Jim and James.  Jim and James.  We ought to do it.  You know they talk about freedom of speech and I'm a big believer in freedom of speech, but that's desecration, that's a terrible thing they do.  We used to have things, we don't have them anymore because we want to be so open, so everything, and look what happens? We should have legislation that if somebody wants to burn the American flag and of times you don't like people too much.  They say, "Oh," but he's a good man.  We worked with him.  We worked with a whole group, including the commissioner of the league, did a very, very good job, did a very good job.  But we called them, and the reason is that they took an ad.  In other words, another one, disinformation.  They took an ad saying I was against football.  I'm the one that said they shouldn't close.  But I said that, if they close, they close.  But then they wasn't winning Ohio, it was by the margin.  "Where the hell?" he said, "Where did this margin come from?" They opened the polls.  Then they closed the polls.  Normally you have to wait hours, unless it's a total runaway.  And they said, "Ah, the polls and the doors are closed in Ohio.  Donald Trump has won. " And they go, "Oh my God.  But wait a minute.  He won by nine points.  What the hell's going on over here?" Then they said, "Donald Trump has won the state of Florida.  Donald night, "You said Winston Churchill was a great leader, but he didn't lie. " Because this guy, Woodward.  He writes a book.  He's had it.  He's another one shot.  I compare him sort of to Biden.  He's sharper than Biden, I have to say that, but he's shot.  He's tired.  He's exhausted.  I never saw a guy be able to do so much television, try doing a book on somebody else.  See how much television time they give you, like none.  But they said the other night, and it was  Keep America great, that's right.  We will give school choice to millions of underserved children who are trapped in failing government schools.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  They're going to take your guns away.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one great nation, as one America.  It's one America.  We believe in the American constitution and we believe in the rule of law, we believe in the dignity of work and in the winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Ohio, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you, Ohio.  Get out and vote.  Thank you. Thank you very much, Phoenix.  We love to be back.  We'll be back a lot.  We're going to win that election.  Thank you very much.  Hello, Phoenix. right to keep and bear arms.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America, we'll be one united nation.  We'll support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement, thank you, law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way like you.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our sadistic, people that stole, a lot of bad people.  You couldn't get rid of them because they were, let's say it could be unions, it could be civil service, right, let's say, let's just say.  And so you couldn't get it done.  That was another one for decades and decades, they wanted to get it changed.  And I got it done with those people and your Congressman, your Congressman who I'm going to introduce.  V. A.  accountability, and now somebody treats our veterans badly and we look at them and what do we say? said, " Mister impeachment. " How did that work out, Tom? Thank you very much for the great poll numbers between him and nervous dancing.  How did that work out? This schmuck spends $250 million dollars, he ends up with one third of a percent in Iowa.  But maybe that could be Rick, because they still don't have any idea what he got.  Maybe he won Iowa, they took it away from him.  No, but he was substantially below it.  All I know, it said 1% and an arrow left.  So he spends 250 toward victory in 2020.  Have to do it.  Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all, and I have found out what a swamp it is.  Bad people.  I have become the expert all what a swamp.  You know, when I used to say, "Drain the swamp," I had no idea it would be that bad.  But we're winning.  We're here and they're not.  We're winning.  We're winning.  Bad people.  Dishonest, bad people.  With your help, we  He said the other day, well, if I win, that doesn't mean that's going to stop.  He doesn't, he will never stop.  If they win, it's not going to happen, hopefully.  Because this is not like a second place crowd.  Let's face it.  Are you seeing? Are you seeing all the polls numbers are coming out? That's why he left.  Finally, he left his basement.  He said we got problems.  I don't think he knows that, but the people that manage him know it.  They understand it.  He doesn't. concrete plank for the builders in here, boom, boom, you put it.  "Sir, we have to be able to see through. " I said, "All right, let's go.  Much more expensive. " I said, "Let's go. " So we're over 300 miles now and we will be finished with it very soon and we have among the safest borders that we've ever had by far and it's a good time to have it too.  That's right.  Mexico is going to pay for it.  What happens if they fight us? Remember that answer? It's going to close.  We were gaining, gaining, gaining.  We were number one by far.  You know, for years I've heard that in 2019, China was going to surpass us.  Well, in 2019, we gained a lot on them.  We were doing great.  We were doing great and we'll be doing even better next year, you watch.  Yesterday it was revealed that a fund partly owned by Joe Biden's son, where's Hunter? See his first name, I now name … His first name is where.  Where's Hunter? He must be a brilliant guy because with California they put you in jail if you shoot a bald eagle, right? You go to jail, right? These windmills are knocking them out of the sky all day long.  It's unbelievable, and yet they want wind, and wind also is very, it's very hard to store the electricity from wind.  So if you go home and you want to watch television because President Trump is on and you want to watch one of his very brilliant State of the Union addresses, if the wind isn't blowing, the husband looks at the wife, says, "Darling, I'm sorry, you New Deal, getting rid of your planes.  No more airplane trips.  Remember the crazy senator from Hawaii? "Do you like the Green New Deal?" "I love it very much," he said.  Oh okay, well you're the senator from Hawaii, that's right, the beautiful island of Hawaii.  She said, "Under the Green New Deal you basically can't fly in an airplane. " "Oh that's a problem. " So they said they'd build a bridge from the mainland to Hawaii.  It's 2,000 miles long but these are minor details.  Remember her when they explained to her who couldn't get in.  And, when people wait two or three days to come in and especially these first rows, I just want to tell you we really thank you.  Incredible.  But, Thom Tillis has really worked with us over the last period of time.  He's recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities.  That's a big deal.  And hold them accountable for the lives that they've shattered.  But, to pass the bill, we need more Republicans.  Tomorrow there is another crucial special election, and we one and he's really a friend of mine, and he's been solid.  He loves his country and he loves his state, Glenn Grothman.  Glenn, thank you very much, friend.  And a man who just got elected, and he's from an area that I know very well, we did very well, we got our big, big, fat, beautiful contract that produced lots of jobs.  But he was taking a legend's place, so it's never easy to replace a legend.  That's Duffy, in case anybody … And they was running and we did a lot of work We're making that round beautiful last turn, but it should have never happened.  China should have never let that happen.  They should have stopped it in China.  Under my administration, before the virus, we quickly achieved the lowest unemployment rate in Nevada's history.  And we'll soon be there again.  You see what's happening.  A guy like Biden would totally eradicate Nevada's economy.  He would make it impossible for you to compete.  And he's already said if the doctor suggested, he would shut down the country again.  We're not shutting down our not doing that.  I'm doing that.  And in fact, if I was the most popular, I'm not doing my job right.  So true.  We've created over six million new jobs since the election.  If I would have said that during the campaign, those people back there would have been headlines, headlines.  More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps.  Since my election, the number of new businesses starting in the great state of New Hampshire has skyrocketed by almost 25%.  And you can't really go by my election. year in jail, you started burning flags, we put you in jail for a year.  We should do that.  They would have done that, it's a different world, I guess, but it's sort of coming back to the way we have to have it because we're for law and order.  They say, don't use that term, it's too tough.  No, everybody wants law and order.  Minorities want law and order.  Everybody wants law and order.  They have to have it.  I'm running for the reelection and a very important reelection to bring Now, he's all of a sudden, his polls are dropping like a rock, and he's starting to say, "But we need law and order. " And then he goes back into the basement for four days.  What happens to this guy? I know what happens to him.  He's shot.  That's what happened to him.  Every once in a while, the great Dana White … Does anybody know Dana White? He's got some champions with him tonight.  He's here.  I got to introduce him.  But every once in a while, I'll ask him, "What " "No, no.  We want ethanol. " Then, "we want biofuel. " Then she is asking for things I never even heard of, but we got them all, whatever that hell she wanted, we got.  Right? And by the way, Joni Ernst and the great Chuck Grassley are right now in Washington fighting for fairness, fighting the hoax, fighting for all of us.  They called, they said, "Do you mind if we don't go tonight? We have to stay. " I said, "I don't want you to be there.  I want you to be where you don't have the supreme court and if you don't have the courts in your side, you can forget it.  The next president, I think, will pick two, three, or even four justices of the supreme court.  They can be on the court for 40 to 50 years.  You pick them young.  They could be on there for 40 to 50 years.  This is going to be the most consequential presidency.  This is going to be the most important, and I never thought I'd say it because of what happened four years ago, this is  Wisconsin state Senate majority leader Scott Fitzgerald.  A friend of mine, a world champion.  Would you believe it? Is Sean here? Where's Sean? Where's Sean? Get up here.  I love champions.  He would climb that sucker.  He was the best in the world right here from Wisconsin, right? Congressman Sean Duffy.  We miss him.  But he signed with CNN.  They paid him a lot of money, and they don't put them on.  Why? Because I'm pro-Trump.  You think that's fair, right? He's pro-Trump.  So what they've done is we were four years ago, and there's far more enthusiasm.  Our base is bigger.  It's stronger.  And we've done the greatest job.  Again, if we didn't get hit by the plague from China, between us, I would have canceled, Mr.  Congressman, most of the rallies.  I wouldn't have needed a rally.  That's a little bit unfair, but that's okay.  That's what China's done to our nation.  They've screwed us for a long time on a lot of different ways.  Never has anybody ripped off our nation like China, and I've was 72 years ago.  We just did a branch.  It's a big deal, isn't it? Think of it.  A branch, the army, the air force.  Think of it.  We did a branch.  For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of Nevada.  At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and Lesko, Arizona.  Great job, Debbie.  Great job.  And a man who's got very good genes, Greg Pence.  Thank you all.  Great job.  They're great… They are, they're warriors.  I'll tell you what.  Not every person is, but this group is, and we have a lot of them in Washington, and we'll send Jim Inhofe back, and we'll send all of them.  You'll send every one of them.  They have to come back because they have been fighting for us, and they've been fighting for you.  And they are just  We got two Supreme Courts.  Great ones.  Great judge.  Gorsuch and Kavanaugh, great judges.  By the way, did you ever see any human being treated worse than now-Justice Kavanaugh? Did anybody ever? Was any human being by these people, these horrible, horrible people that we have to deal with? Anyway, just to finish.  So Hunter then goes to China.  Now I'm dealing with China right now.  They don't like me too much.  They dream about the day when somebody else … And would they like to have … How about this? she was down and out, but that was too long ago.  I should've waited.  But don't worry.  We will revive it.  It can be revived.  It can be rewritten, right? It will be revived and it can be revived very easily and very quickly.  And we're going to have some fun in the state of New Hampshire.  Now what do we do, ready? Let me have first make America great again, then keep America great, right? Just applaud like crazy for the one you want to use for this campaign.  And there's take away your guts, they take away your statues, they take away your heroes.  They take away your great generals.  They take away your past.  And I said, it was going to happen.  I said, "You know what? They started off with generals and colonels and others that nobody ever heard of. " And I thought that was bad.  And then they went up a little bit and now I said, "Someday it's going to be Robert Lee, someday it's going to be Washington, someday it's going to be Lincoln.  Someday it's going to They don't beat up ICE.  You're lucky we have ICE.  They want to put ICE out of business.  That's not happening.  ICE is… They're incredible people.  They're great patriots and they're tough.  Thanks to Democrat immigration policies, innocent Americans in all 50 states are being brutalized and murdered by illegal alien criminals.  Last summer, at least 19 illegal aliens were charged in connection with grizzly homicides, including hacking victims to death and ripping out, in two cases, their hearts.  Weeks ago, two illegal aliens and members of the savage gang, MS-13, who they think it will help them win the election.  They're not going to win the election.  Don't forget, we are doing this and still fighting the unfairness of China and other countries on trade.  What happens when that gets fixed and other things get fixed? We're setting new records and we're fighting trade deals and we're fighting military deals that are unfair to our country.  Think what happens when it all gets fixed, We have ourselves a country that's going to be so strong.  But we had a phrase, make what? Make America great again, sisters, the brothers.  We meet them, and we talked to them, and their son or daughter is being flown in from some far away place in a coffin, and these things are just impossible.  I don't know how parents can do it, even.  And I'll meet them.  And we have a particular Colonel, that's all he does.  So good.  So professional.  That's what he does.  He said, "I greet the dead, sir.  I greet the dead. " And what happens is this big incredible machine flies in, this tremendous cargo plane, endorsed two days ago by Chicago Police.  I think that takes courage, right? Philadelphia, Florida, Texas, everybody, Ohio.  I don't know, did anybody … Is there one group of … Even if it was a tiny little group of two or three police, did anybody endorse Sleepy Joe? I don't think so.  But we did a great job in Kenosha.  We got out there, I went there as you know, a little while ago but had we not gone in that place would … It would have been burned to the ground.  They did damage, I can't watch.  But no, we have enough politics.  We don't want to watch now on Sunday, all, here we go again with the politics, let them play football, let them stand and salute or put your hand on your heart and be proud of our country and be proud of our great American flag.  And then go home to the mansion and have a good time.  Take a nice sauna and then if you want, after you recover, you come out and you go and you do your thing, whatever the thing may be.  soul of America.  And that's what you are.  We're actually here today to officially launch our campaign to win the great state of New Hampshire in 2020.  And I saw some fake polls put out by the fake news media, and it said that I'm tied with three of the other candidates, the Democrats, I'm tied in New Hampshire.  I don't think so.  One of them has a rally, he's got 100 people.  So this holds 12,000 we're full.  And we could fill it up four times at least.  We could fill that deal.  And all of the technology will be maintained here.  They're going to move probably to the great state of Texas.  Sorry, we got you a lot of business when it came… but they're going to move into the United States, which is what's important.  They're moving to the United States, unbelievable company.  They're going to have 25,000 jobs.  If it all goes, I gave them the preliminary approval.  But they're putting up $5 billion.  And my only problem is they did it so fast.  I should have asked for the tariffs.  And out of the tens of billions we gave our great farmers, because they were targeted by China, because China knows, very smart, that the farmers love Trump, and Trump loves the farmers.  I said to our Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, I said, "Sonny, how much did the farmers get hit by China targeting them and pulling back and doing all sorts of things?" He said, "$16 billion. " I said, "That's okay.  We'll take $16 billion out of a much, much, much larger number.  We're going to give it to the farmers, that happen? I withdrew from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal, a disaster.  I recognize Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Pennsylvania.  You've never had that better year.  Never At stake in our present battle is the survival of the American nation itself.  It's the survival.  We will destroy our country if these people get in.  I say said that Donald Trump said this," I have 28 people now that have come forward saying it's a total lie, they don't care, so they did an ad, once they did that, I said, "Well, now the gloves are off. " Let's face it, Joe Biden is incompetent.  He always was even in prime time.  he was incompetent in prime time.  And now he's really incompetent.  But because of the ad, I said, "It's very interesting, that ad, it's very interesting.  Let me call up the Commissioner. " I had called up the Commissioner, very nightmare and signed the brand new USMCA Mexico-Canada Agreement into law.  You're not going to see companies leaving for Mexico very much anymore.  They're not going to be leaving your community, going to Mexico, making a product, selling the product back in, not being taxed at the border.  Doesn't work that way anymore.  It's probably the biggest reason I ran for president if you want to know that… and these stupid, endless wars.  I saved the Uni-… but that's one of the reasons Washington doesn't like me.  They love those endless wars.  You had people that I said, "These are super left liberals and they didn't like it. " Joe Biden and the Democrats want to prosecute Americans for going to church, but not for burning a church.  They believe you can riot, vandalize and destroy, but you cannot attend a peaceful pro-America rally.  They want to punish your thought, but not their violent crimes.  They want to abolish bail, abolish and open up your borders.  They want open borders, let everyone, and by the way, we're doing so well.  We have a record this month on the false, totally false.  But they still go with it, they go with it.  And they know I'm in the group with them coming back.  And I don't know much about a mini stroke, but I assume Mr.  Congressman, if you have a mini stroke, you're not heading back to the White House, right? At least you'll spend a couple of nights at that great hospital, right? So anyway, these are really dangerous people.  They are so bad for our country.  If we had honest press, it would be so great for the USA.  Fox and friends, and plenty of other places, right? A lot of personality, a lot of personality.  Rachel, she's been our friend from day one, I think from day one.  And her fantastic family too.  Tonight, we're also praying for everyone in the path of Hurricane Sally.  We're out there working very hard.  We are working in Florida and Alabama and Georgia.  We have FEMA.  We have everybody there.  We just finished in … take a look, we just went to Louisiana, Texas.  We're getting hit by some big hurricanes, but story is about something with me, I don't know, something bad they found out.  Then there was a fourth and a fifth and a sixth.  I said, "First Lady, I'm a little embarrassed.  I thought we'd do a little better. " And then they looked at the screen, and said, "Good night. " And I wasn't covered.  I got the Nobel Peace Prize nomination, a Peace Prize, Nobel nomination.  And they didn't cover it.  And then the following day I watched a certain show that does like us, and they said, "Would you believe, campaigned on it, at the same time we want to get along with Russia, we want to get along with China, we want to get along with all these countries.  Who the hell needs to have conflict? But these people are sick, they are sick people.  The radical left's attempts to poison our democracy and overturn the last election have totally ended in a big fat failure.  And by the way, you saw today, single best day I've ever had is the polls and any poll that the fake news gives you, because the real numbers are on working.  We are going to keep on fighting.  And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We'll get so tired of winning.  I don't know, Mississippi.  You're winning.  You had the best year you've ever had.  You have the best, Mississippi, the best year you've ever had in the history of our country.  Mississippi.  Your statistic.  Mississippi, aren't you getting tired of winning? I guess not.  So Phil doesn't come to me and say, "Sir, please, we're willing too much.  The people of Mississippi can't now it's like a rocket ship, $100 billion.  I said to him, great people, 28 nations, including the US, I said to him, "Listen, we're taking care of you.  You screw us on trade, and you don't pay your military bills.  This is not a good deal for the United States. " So we're taking care of trade.  We want to do it nice and slow and easy.  You know, we got a world balance, but European Union is terrible to us on trade, terrible.  Frankly, they're as tough or tougher than China, just what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream.  That's what it's about.  Look at Venezuela.  Venezuela, 15 years ago, was one of the wealthiest countries in the world and today, very sad.  No food, no water, no nothing.  Socialism.  We begin this campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for America.  And it's not just a little bit positive.  Our country is going to travel all over the place.  Hold up your hands.  These are great women.  I see them so much, and I must say they have other things to do.  They look rich as hell to me, I don't know.  How many is this? How many rallies have you come too? They can't count.  They said all of them except for two.  That's a lot of rallies and it all emanates from this area.  That's so great.  Well, at least you won't have to travel so far for this one, right? Thank you price transparency, which I've already signed into law, which by the way, kicks in on January 1st.  You better elect me North Carolina.  I did price transparency and I've cut the price.  Drugs are going to start going down at levels nobody's ever seen favored nations.  So we did price transparency, kicks in January 1st.  Could you imagine if this guy's president and your prices start to go way down, hospitalization, doctors, you can choose your own doctor unlike with Obama, right? Price is going way down, January 1st.  I said, couldn't you start in Syria.  Trump said, so people said to me, why you staying in Syria? Okay? A long time ago.  You have no idea the things and the decisions I've seen.  So they say Trump's in Syria, I didn't pull out.  I did pull out.  We have the oil really secure.  We'll see what happens with it, but we can help our friends, the Kurds, because that's where they got their wealth.  And then ultimately it was with ISIS.  But right now it's with the United States military.  And we also got  We can joke, we can play games, we can have fun.  You can't have this guy as your president.  You can't have him.  Maybe I'll sign an executive order.  You cannot have him as your president.  No, but you know this.  Everybody knows this.  And you know what? People are going to vote for him because they feel sorry for him.  I feel sorry for him too.  I feel sorry for him.  And maybe he'll show up for an hour-and-a-half at a debate.  Who the hell knows? I  But Mike Pence has been great.  But tell me, is it perfect casting the whole thing? And this isn't about casting, this is about real life.  But when Mark Burnett said to me the other day, he said, "The greatest reality show of all times, times of million. " That's exactly except for one thing, we work our asses off and we are doing things like nobody has ever done before.  Right? Right? So, we took out Al Baghdadi and then we just took out two weeks ago the world's top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani of Iran, few days.  I'm sorry, sir.  He won't be able to speak right now, he'll call you back on Wednesday.  Okay.  Thank you very much.  I appreciate it. " On Tuesday, I announced that I'm doing it.  Then I got on the phone with 18 different companies.  I go, "Hey, how you doing? You called, I'm just returning your call. " "Oh, it's too late, sir.  We called about Israel.  It's too late. " I said, "Gee, I'm sorry.  I wish you got to me a little bit sooner. " I believe it? Virginia, I love Virginia.  Of all states, they want to take your guns away.  The Democrats.  Not going to happen.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America.  We are one great America.  We support, protect, and defend the constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that family and faith, not government bureaucracy, are the true American way, to get to Hawaii?" They said, "We're going to build a railroad. " She said that would be "the world's longest track. " It's the world's longest.  She doesn't know that they don't want airplanes anymore, and yet they fly around in brand new Gulfstreams, in brand new planes all over the place.  They're flying from place to place.  They're talking about the carbon footprint.  "We're going to destroy the carbon footprint! What time is my plane taking off, please?" To lift up forgotten communities, the Republican tax cut launched Opportunity Zones, jobs, and investment, and We're not even in election season and we have more enthusiasm now.  Believe it or not, then we had even before the election in 2016.  It's true.  It's too early.  It's too early.  It's true.  We have a great gentleman and a woman with us, a friend of mine, mister and misses Sheldon Adelson, right over here.  Great, great person.  Two great people.  He's got so much money, he doesn't know what the hell to do with it.  He owns the Sands Hotel.  That's like one of the smaller have a crowd like this.  But they're like this.  They have such spirit in this country.  People love our country so much.  I went to Texas, I went to Ohio, I went to Florida, it's always like this.  They love our country and we're not going to disappoint anybody.  We're not disappointed.  For years you had a president who apologized for America… So you had a president who apologized for America, now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the people of North Carolina.  This  I said, "What the hell is going on here, Dana? This place is packed.  We were packed.  We had thousands of people that couldn't get in, and I was so nice.  I said, "Let's do it again, Dana, please. " And we did it again and again and again, and it became the UFC and he sold it and has a big chunk of it, but he got $4 billion when he sold it.  $4 billion.  That's not too bad.  That's not too bad, Dana.  But he really is, he's an incredible be done.  We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  And above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America.  We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work, and the sanctity of life.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  And we could sign some of them up, the ICE agents, they go into like a pack.  They go at a pack.  They go into a pack of MS-13 fighters.  These are criminals and they do it like it's routine.  You don't want that job.  I don't see any of the people, male or female sitting in this audience, that wants that job, ICE.  They take out thousands and thousands of MS-13 killers a year and bring them the hell back out of our country.  All around our country, our communities are protected by Hispanic numbers are so good, but two things that will never get old- … one of the reasons our numbers are so good, but two things that will never get old, never, you know what they are? A wall and a wheel.  A wall and a wheel.  It'll never get old.  A wall.  I see so many things and I see all these businesses, computers, you come up with a new chip, you come up with a new computer, you come up with a new laptop.  Three weeks later, you buy it, three weeks later, it's to close it up.  We saved millions of lives and now we're open again and we're setting records.  We're setting records.  Wait till you see the numbers just before the election.  There'll be released and this is despite the fact that the Democrats are holding back Michigan, North Carolina.  You take a look.  Pennsylvania.  They want to keep them.  By the way, on November 4th, regardless, they'll be opening them up, November 4th, because they think that hurts the economy and that will hurt me, but our numbers are going to be some of them quite quietly I must add.  Sign your mail-in ballot.  You sign it and send it in and then you have to follow it and if on Election Day or early voting, that is not tabulated and counted, you go vote, and then if for some reason after that, it shouldn't take that long, it comes in, they're not going to be able to tabulate it because you will have voted.  But you have to make sure your vote counts because the only way they're going to beat us is by doing that kind of by the way.  And I call a brand new person, a man I have no idea who he is, and I'm on a phone, right? And I know many people are on the phone because when you call the leaders of country, many people listen.  And I'm on the phone, and they want me to say to this brand new president, just got there, called to congratulate him, "Please, could you help me please?" I don't know who he is.  I didn't know his name until I looked down the card, I see.  And he's a of it.  It was unlucky.  I don't want any part, but that's when you saw the people say, what the hell is going on? What? What's happening? And then it was state after state, it was Florida, it was South Carolina, we love South Carolina.  Right? Unbelievable.  It was Pennsylvania.  Remember they wouldn't announce the numbers in Pennsylvania, so there was 1% of the vote remaining.  If I lost every one of those votes, we still win by a lot, and they wouldn't announce it.  They wouldn't announce it.  And then we paperwork," essentially.  So we're re-filing it.  Most people would say we lost.  We didn't lose.  We're going to refile it.  And everything is going to work out for the young people.  Most of whom aren't so young anymore, by the way.  But we're going to work it out for everybody.  Biden is fully controlled by the fringe of his party.  He is their pawn.  He doesn't even know where the hell he is.  Let's face it.  He installed socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.  To be in charge of his jobs.  We have created over 750,000 jobs right here in Texas and very importantly, that includes 70,000 new Texas manufacturing jobs.  They said that couldn't be done.  Unemployment … Think of this.  Unemployment in Texas is currently at the lowest rate ever recorded in the history of our country, and unemployment in the United States has just reached the lowest level in over 51 years and very soon we think that will be broken to be a historic number.  Unemployment among African Americans, Asian Americans, and Hispanic Americans have all reached their lowest levels in you had to pay a lot of money for the privilege of not having to pay for bad healthcare, right? We got rid of it.  And it was upheld in the Supreme Court, what we did.  Whenever we get sued, everything we do, if we move, if we take 10 steps right or left, we get sued and we're now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive.  We're going to make healthcare a big part of this campaign.  We're protecting people with preexisting conditions and we always will.  That's why if we are you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people, with your help, your devotion and with your drive.  We are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  Do you like winning? Because not very long ago you weren't winning, and I don't want you … I told this a few times during the campaign.  Haven't used it in a long time, but I don't want you going Senator Rand Paul last night.  He'd either be in very bad shape or dead and that would include his wife if those policemen didn't happen to be there.  They took some big beating.  The reason they didn't fight back too much, they don't want to lose their pension.  They don't want to lose their job, because we've become so politically correct, everybody's afraid to do anything now, but they did a good job.  The puppet Biden, who's just controlled so strongly wants you to cancel weddings, funerals and school, but has no problem with thousands will produce 250,000 jobs.  She said, this will produce 200 … she made it.  Hillary, crooked Hillary.  She made it, no wait, she said it's going to produce 250,000 jobs.  And she was 100% right, it produced 250,000 jobs for South Korea, not for us.  It produced 250,000 jobs for South Korea.  Not for us.  South Korea did very well with that deal, but I changed that deal a lot.  That's now a good deal.  Earlier this year, I kept my promise to American workers.  When we ended the NAFTA have to be mortgage the farm, as the expression goes.  They won't have to mortgage anything, there's no tax.  If you don't love your children, don't leave it to them and then you do have a problem.  No, I'm only kidding.  Does anybody here not love their child or their children? Because if you don't… There's one man raising his hand.  Nah, that's a big thing.  No more estate tax, no more death tax for your small farms and business.  Those are things that people don't even realize.  Only this way can about all they use, were the fairways.  And now we have something, right through the runways, the landing strips, it was all grass infested, it was all weed infested, and now it's the number one space center in the world, by far.  It was a closed up mess.  And we have rich guys sending up rockets, Elon and others.  They send up rockets and we say, let them keep going.  Let them keep spending money on these rockets.  They love rockets.  We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic has plummeted to the lowest rate ever recorded.  The unemployment rate for women has reached the lowest level in 71 years.  Soon to be historic.  And veterans' unemployment has dropped to a record low.  We're working with our veterans, we're taking care of our veterans like nobody's ever taken care of our veterans.  The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached the lowest level in history.  Workers without a high school diploma, you have a lot of them.  They left high school.  They said, "I should have finished. " They left.  a song from the 1950s, Al Green.  And they mentioned little changes to it, that's okay.  But they mentioned illegal immigration, right? And I used to do this a lot and people couldn't get enough of it, to be honest with you.  And I haven't done it for a while, and I thought I'd do it tonight because you're on the eve of giving us an opponent and all of these people want open borders.  They want open borders, and we don't want open borders.  We want very strong closed borders.  And we want can't go to church anymore.  You can't go to church.  You can't go to church, you can't do anything.  You have to stay in your house but if you're willing to riot, running down Main Street, if you're willing to riot and stand on top of each other's face and do whatever the hell you want to do, you're allowed to do that because you're considered a peaceful protester so we decided to call all our rallies peaceful protests even my people, my very brilliant consultants who I don't listen to too much, maybe I should.   Got to do it again.  And it's happening.  You see what's happening.  Job numbers, retail sale numbers, they're all at records.  It's happening.  It's happening very fast.  It's actually happening in a super V, not a V.  It's a super V and you'll see that, and big numbers are coming out and have come out, and just watch your set or watch your newspaper.  Read your newspaper.  You're seeing numbers that, congressmen, we haven't seen those numbers ever before, actually.  We've never seen them.  And by the way, American heroes in law enforcement, and they deserve unwavering gratitude.  I want to just thank you all, I want to thank you all.  With us tonight are members of the National Border Patrol Council and they are great friends of us.  I want to just thank them.  The official union of our nation's incredible border patrol agents.  And you know what? They're not supposed to do it, but they did it anyway, they endorsed me.  I want to thank Brandon Judd, who's here, and Art Del Cueto.  Art.  Where's Brandon, where is of NAFTA.  So many.  But Biden is too weak to be president, and he's not a smart person.  And by the way, he wasn't smart 25 years ago.  Everybody knew it.  Now we don't even have to discuss the matter.  But I was going to say, when he put that ad up, we told him to take it down.  When he put that ad up, that dishonored our fallen heroes.  They are great, great heroes of mine, of yours, of everybody's.  I know really bad people.  No bad person, the  I tell this story, it was a hard thing to get done.  It was easy to talk about in the campaign, "We're going to open up the embassy in Jerusalem.  We're going to make it.  It becomes automatically the capital of Israel. " Everybody said it for very, very many decades, for decades, many presidents.  But I realize now why it was an effort because as soon as I got in, I was lobbied by everybody, "Please don't do it.  Don't do it.  Don't make the capital of Israel Jerusalem.  Don't move  They didn't do anything.  They didn't do anything, but we did.  We have it all funded and we started, think of that, AIDS within 10 years will be out of this country.  Nobody would have thought that was possible.  We will end it.  Great, great.  I came into my office, they were telling me about the breakthroughs that have been made.  It's incredible what they're doing.  And don't forget right to try, by the way, where somebody who's terminally ill can now use our medicines, which they were never allowed to … go top-20, top-30.  Take a look.  Democrat-run, radical left-wing, Democrat, usually run.  Not Republican-run, Democrat-run.  And we go back, and we take a look.  We want to give them help.  They don't want help.  But when they do ask for help, and when they do, we go in.  Like Minneapolis, the National Guard went in, took 35 minutes to quell a situation that went on for two weeks.  They knew we were going in to Seattle.  We told them, "We're going in tomorrow morning. " And so, they sent great governor.  By the way, the other governor.  I don't think … Well, I don't know.  You know? He's not going to do so well.  He'll be calling for a meeting, and I won't be able to see him because I don't like him very much.  But I like this one very much, and we're going to help him.  We slashed a record number of job-killing regulations.  We ended the war on American energy.  We're now the largest producer of energy anywhere in the world.  And we ended the war on right? Very early I endorsed her.  I know talent.  She's done a great job.  Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos.  Republicans stand for law, order, and justice.  It's true.  We are finding the illegal game members, drug dealers, predators, and we are throwing them the hell out of our country, ideally.  We don't want to put them in prison because you know what? We got to pay for them for the next 50 years, but sometimes we have to.  If they're too dangerous we have no choice.  Thanks to our bit too. " Did you ever see debates where you had all of the anchors plus the candidates against me? Here we sit, is that Air Force One, yes, that's Air Force One.  How did that happen? A lot of the times I'd say to the anchor, I'd say, "Wait a minute.  Wait a minute.  This isn't fair. " I mean I'm watching what they're doing with Biden where he's using teleprompters, "Move it up, move it up, I can't see, I can't see. " He's shot.  He's shot.  President Xi of China is not that job? Do you want that job? Look, he's a tough guy sitting here, you too, you're tough guys, you don't want any part of it.  They're just incredible and they love our country.  They love our country.  And then people say, " Oh, they're too rough.  They're too rough. " You have no idea how bad some of these gangs are and what they do.  They use knives because it's more painful.  They cut people up.  They cut two young, beautiful girls, 16 years old.  They were going home from school of you wouldn't.  I mean, I've seen it.  They have these people that are like killers.  And now the guys are here.  And they want to call them a safe place.  And they run in and they're swinging and punching.  What the hell kind of a job is that? That's what they do.  They're tough people.  They're great patriots.  Who the hell wants to do it? They're incredible, ICE.  And they get scorned and we take out thousands and thousands of MS-13 members every single year.  They throw them so I banned it.  Later on it was said to be a great move.  If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died.  If Biden wins, China will own America, and it won't take long, with his son, Hunter walking out with all of that money with no experience whatsoever, no investment…He didn't even have a job.  Joe Biden is weak and will always cave to China who is strong.  When the virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II.  We're delivering life-saving therapies and and I told you we took over 100% of the ISIS caliphate in Iraq and Syria and we killed the founder and leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi, and separately, we killed the world's number one terrorist, number one terrorist for decades and decades, Qasem Soleimani.  We killed Soleimani.  It's a big step for the Middle East.  We kept America out of wars.  Remember they always said, "Oh, this Trump.  He's radical, he's really, I mean he's off the … He's too radical.  He'll get us in wars. " I kept us out of wars, what it, he's unable, okay? It's not that, it's that the fake news would give him the questions.  They never gave me the questions.  Did you ever give me questions, back there? Did you ever give me… They don't give me questions.  The fake news would give him questions, but of course now Donna Brazile works for Fox, so that's gone a long way.  Remember? Remember when Donna Brazile gave crooked Hillary the questions, right? To a debate? And then she said, "Well, I don't think I did it.  I don't remember. " I knew she  Outsourcing Michigan's factories, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless foreign wars and surrendering our children's future to China and other far away lands.  Biden supported every disastrous globalist sellout for over a half a century, including NAFTA, China, and DPP.  You know that.  Joe Biden surrendered your jobs to China and now he wants to surrender our country to the violent left wing mob and you're seeing that every night.  If Biden wins, China wins.  If Biden wins, the mob wins.  If Biden wins, the rioters, anarchist, arsonist and flag burners You got my total support.  I hear very good things.  I could only be supportive.  Our record is like 222 and three, so I don't like to have a loss.  And I support you a 100%, you know that.  You have my total endorsement, all right? I hear you're fantastic.  All right.  And your former congressman who I hope is making a lot of money in the private sector because he deserves it, especially his wife, Rachel deserves it, she's just fantastic.  He's fantastic because I know he's coming back into government caliphate, it was the size physically of Ohio, the state of Ohio, the great state of Ohio.  That's a big, lot of land.  7 million people, and they were the ones, the orange jumpsuits.  I called a lot of the parents after we did this and I talked to them and they were … How can you be happy? But they were so thrilled that we got this animal.  They were so thrilled.  But you know what? And you know what? We don't do it for … We do it because it's right.  That job.  Not easy, Mexico's not easy, but he's doing a very good job, but the wall is almost completed and it's a tremendous wall.  It's everything that the Border Patrol wanted.  I gave them everything.  I said, "What else do you want?" It's wired for every single thing you could have.  Remember the Democrats, "We don't want a wall, we want drones flying. " Oh that helps us a lot, drones, so you can watch everybody pour in to our country, right? Biden supports cutting police funding and he has pledged to end cash bail. and me, and Rand, and all of us, he left 142 openings for judges.  You're not supposed to allow any.  You don't do that.  You know, they say the most important thing a president can do is federal judges, right? Including the Supreme Court, obviously.  I came in and I said, "How many do we have?" They said, "How many what, sir?" I said, "Judge openings. " And I thought they'd say none, or one or two.  He said, "Sir, we have 142. " I said, "What?" I said, "Tell me again. " He said, American family.  These jurisdictions release dangerous violent criminal aliens out of their jails and directly onto your streets where they are free to rob, attack, and kill American citizens but stop it.  They want open borders.  Can you believe it? And because of Democrats' open border policies, they want open borders.  They want more people flowing.  Come on in.  Come on in.  Innocent Americans are being brutalized and murdered by illegal alien criminals.  As just one example right here in Ohio, you all know about it, an illegal alien went on a Rick Perry.  Thank you.  Hey Rick, how are we doing in Texas? 00, the polls closed and they only announce if you're way ahead.  So they say, "The polls have closed in the great state of Texas, Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas. " … Hillary even beat this guy.  Hillary.  Hillary came in second in Utah.  This week my administration reached a breakthrough agreement to stop additional steel imports from Brazil and from Mexico for the rest of the year despite the USMCA, sometimes they get a little carried away and you know what else they like, they like their Second Amendment, right? So think about it.  So whether it's Pennsylvania, or Texas, or Oklahoma, or North Dakota, or any place, you take a look at this, right? And no oil, no guns, no God.  I don't think George Washington running with Abraham Lincoln as his VP, he'll pick Abraham Lincoln as VP is going to win in Texas, or in Pennsylvania, or any place else with those three things eliminated.  That's what they want to do.  They want to take away your Second Amendment.  their homes while they encourage rioters and vandals rampaging through, in all cases, Democrat-run cities.  Republican-run cities are doing very well.  I hope you know that.  And I hope you know, like in Minneapolis, we were asked to come in, we went in, we took care of that problem in about, what, 30 minutes? Unfortunately, they let almost two weeks go by.  And if you look at what we just did in Wisconsin, which was so amazing, three days, and we went in.  And by the way, the US Marshals went in to get the He has no clue where he is, but he keeps saying, "Oh, if he was," well he didn't want the ban China, and we saved hundreds of thousands of lives by banning China.  I was the only one that wanted to do it, actually.  Then we banned Europe because I saw what was happening in Italy and Spain and France.  We banned Europe.  We saved hundreds of thousands.  If I didn't do the closing and the opening, so we're at 175,000, far too … look, one is too much because this was given to us together?" I figured they'd say, "We're married. " He met her at the rally in Colorado.  Can you believe this? Can you believe it? Man, did he get lucky.  They both got lucky, right? They both got lucky.  Well, that's cool.  No, I just see there's so much stuff out here.  It's genius, actually.  While the extreme left has been wasting America's time with viral hoaxes, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border, lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed.  As you the history of this country.  And we had a level of enthusiasm, I mean, even look today.  With all going on, look at the kind of crowds we have.  But we had record enthusiasm in 2016.  By the way, was that greatest evening ever? November.  And now it's going to be November 3rd, and we'll keep it going and we'll get it all like a tree.  You move that tree.  It takes a little while to plant, your tax cuts.  They're going to raise your taxes.  They're going to take away Biden goes out I see Sleepy Joe and he says, "They had 115 people show up, 115 people.  That's our first row. " The democratic record on healthcare is one of deception and destruction, the last administration said a lie.  If you like your plan, you can keep your plan, if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, 28 times, a total lie.  My administration is defending your sacred right to choose the doctor and the plan that you want, and we are offering plans up to 60% cheaper than Obamacare, and a lot of I don't know Tulsi Gabbard, but Hillary Clinton said that Tulsi Gabbard is a Russian agent.  I don't know Jill Stein.  She's a Greenie and that's fine.  She's a Greenie, Jill Stein.  But Jill Stein was an agent of Russia also.  These people are crazy.  Now corrupt politicians, Nancy Pelosi and Adam Schiff, they are corrupt.  And Nancy, unlike Kentucky, which is doing great, Nancy ought stop wasting time, go back to her district in San Francisco, help the homeless, get rid of the drugs, get rid of the needles that are lying people.  And I have to say this, look, and I always have to say this, you have some really great journalists and you have some honest publications, but not too many of them, I have to be honest with you.  Well, you know that.  Does anybody think the media is honest? Does anybody think they're totally corrupted and dishonest? All right.  The legislation will also officially establish something that's so important to me because it's where it's at.  And a lot of people used to smile and now outside of the wall, which we're building… a nice guy.  He said that, "He didn't have the same energy in the speech that he usually has. " Well, it's a different kind of a speech.  Tonight, I'm in New Hampshire and we can wing it.  See, actually, actually Chris, who has always wanted to be his father, but it never worked out because of a lack of talent.  Actually though, actually Chris has it wrong.  If I did last night's speech here, by now you would have all been walking out.  And if I did tonight's speech there, I would have  We're going to use both … Good.  Keep America Great.  We're going to use both, but Keep America Great.  That's probably going to be the dominant theme.  For eight years, the Obama administration enabled and emboldened- … the Iranian regime.  They gave Iran $150 billion, including $1. 7 billion- … in hard, cold cash.  Can you imagine? No, no, can you imagine? $1. 7 billion, $1. 8 billion in cash? The foolish Iran nuclear deal financed Iranian aggression while allowing a quick path to nuclear breakout, that's what it did.  By the a lot of it, but we are going to do it at a level that nobody ever thought possible.  We will rapidly return to full employment, soaring wages, and record prosperity.  We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults or law enforcement, surge, federal prosecutors into high crime communities and ban all sanctuary cities.  We will protect government benefits for American citizens, not for illegal aliens.  What you're doing when you have all of these advantages, when you're giving them free healthcare, and free lawyers, and free college, and free everything, they all come.  before we started on Europe.  I like to do them one at a time, one at a time.  I'm a very organized person.  But weeks ago we also signed a terrific new trade agreement with China that will boost American agriculture by $50 billion every year, and many other businesses like manufacturing, banking, finance, overall $250 billion, and you know with the farmers, because I have a place in my heart for the farmers big.  I went and I saw Ambassador Lighthizer's in charge, he's fantastic.  I said, "What are you doing? We're getting ready and hand it to people that hate our guts, that's power.  That's power.  I don't believe he had the right to do it.  I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the US embassy in Jerusalem.  I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we achieved the first breakthrough in the Middle East in 25 years.  You saw that just last week.  UAE, highly respected.  Mohamed, highly respected.  UAE and Israel.  And now they're all going to be coming in.  Now they're all saying, "How so that they're even. " And I tell you, the farmers do love Trump, they do love Trump.  And to keep New Mexico's farms, ranches, and small businesses in the family, we eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax, so that you can now give your farm or your ranch to your children.  Now, if you don't like your children, don't do it.  But when it's your time to kick the bucket, you worked hard.  You have great kids, you love your kids, they're taking care of you.  You really love them.  It's We've made historic progress to crack down on visa overstays.  You know all about that.  They overstay for years.  They say, "Maybe a night, maybe two nights. " Well, five years later, you catch them.  No, we ended it.  We issued strict sanctions on countries that failed to take back their own criminals.  We have many countries beyond the four that I mentioned, the three plus one, many countries.  They all take them back now.  Before, they weren't taking them back at all.  The last administration simply released these criminals.  not just our country.  Election after election, politicians came to your state pretending to have the courage to stand up for the American worker, then they went to Washington and let other countries push them around, and special interests, buy them off and steal your jobs and take your companies.  That's what happened.  Me, I don't care about their campaign contributions.  It doesn't matter to me, folks.  We want to do a job.  We want to do a great job, and we're setting records, and you know who's sending us the money? The small four trillion dollar tax hike, ban American energy, confiscate your guns, which is what they want to do.  Shut down the economy, destroy the suburbs.  You know they were destroying our suburbs, you know that, right? I don't know, if somebody said, you just doing okay in the suburbs? I said, "How can I do okay, I saved the suburbs.  What I've done is saved the suburbs. " And you know this, I don't have to go into it, but I saved the suburbs.  I think the suburbs … Last time, four years ago, "Oh, he's get them a host.  We'll call up… Don't take Sean Hannity away from us.  Don't take our show.  That's my problem, I don't want to take away any of our people.  You get a Pete Hegseth.  You get a Jesse Waters.  You get… I could name so many of them, right? And you put them on that broadcast, their ratings would go up five fold but they don't know that.  I don't know.  They're stupid.  Their ratings would go through the roof, but they would rather have a failed broadcast that than we thought.  He did better with Asians than we thought.  He did really well with women.  What's this all about? Ladies and gentlemen.  And they said, Donald Trump is projected the winner of 2016.  You remember that evening? Was that the craziest? That was the craziest thing.  And they thought, I think they didn't think it, but I'll tell you what anything we had then, we have much more now.  They don't understand.  They do understand it.  They do.  Right? They understand it.  Look at that beautiful dress. Barack Hussein Obama were traveling to Michigan because they heard they had problems.  They were supposed to win Michigan, but they did such a lousy job that they had to come and get some votes.  They came and I heard about it.  They said, "Sir, could you do it?" I hopped in the plane.  We landed at 12 o'clock in the evening.  I started speaking at one o'clock in the morning now election day.  32,000 people.  She had 500 people.  I said, "Why are we going to lose Michigan?" And we didn't.  It's a billboard.  So let's go just that.  Because I am very surprised by it.  We're going to keep them both, but I just curious if we did go to one, "Make America great again?" " Keep America great?" I can't.  I would have said that's impossible.  "Make America great again," is the greatest phrase.  A lot of people, again, fake news, I think will agree to it.  It's the greatest phrase ever used in politics.  It's the greatest phrase.  Now, who has the greatest phrase ever used in the ever meet.  And Mike said, he never did a good job, I'm so shocked to see him running.  Okay.  And then he goes back home, and African Americans literally were so angry at him for the lousy job and he's supposed to be like a hot young star, if that's a hot young star, I guess I just don't no star anymore.  That is not as star.  That's not a star.  Buut-ih-jij, you say, Buut, and then add ih-jij, Buttigieg.  I don't see him dealing with President Xi of China.  I don't there's a conflict? How about his son? Where's Hunter? Where is Hunter? Where is Hunter? Does anybody know? Where's Hunter? He's in another country right now, probably, ripping off another country.  No, as soon as Biden became vice president, bad things happened with respect to a Hunter.  If that happened with respect to my family, I wouldn't be standing.  I guarantee you that.  I guarantee you that.  What a disgrace.  What a disgrace.  Ukraine.  And it's not just Ukraine and it's not just China.  But he goes into China, takes out don't think they'll do too well in Texas.  Did you see where they said? "We think the race will be quite close in Texas, but the president has an edge. " Listen, I'm in favor of oil and energy.  I'm in favor of religion and God.  Okay? And I'm in favor of our great Second Amendment, guns.  So he's against our Second Amendment.  Okay, you know who he'd put in charge.  Beto, Beto.  Or as he says is, "Beto, Beto. " So when Beto was legit and then Ted Cruz beat him, and night, wasn't it though? One hell of a night.  I think it was maybe, you know there are those that say, one of the most extraordinary and exciting evenings in the history of television and the history of anything.  And you know, you can go, all over the world in some cases, it was morning.  You go to Asia, you go to Europe, you go all over.  It was just record setting and here's the point, we have to do it again.  We have to do it again.  And the reason we have to  Then you've got to release them.  By law you've got to release them or they'll arrest the border patrol agent if they don't release.  It's crazy.  But we could end this in 15 minutes, but they don't want to do it.  They don't want to do it.  They're obstructionists.  They're colluders.  And we can't let it happen.  That's why you have to go with Tate Reeves.  Tate's going to send a big signal, by the way.  It's a big signal.  It's great for you.  He's going to  You have to be able to answer.  They're very weak compared to some of the foreign people that we deal with from foreign countries, leaders of foreign countries.  But I say he's always using a teleprompter.  I don't care if he uses a teleprompter, you know what bothers me? That means the fake news is giving him the questions.  So that's what really… they never gave me the questions.  If I ever said, in fact, I'm going to say it now.  I want from now on you to give me the questions before America Great Again, and all due respect, I'll never end … I'm a little superstitious.  I'll never end it, Make America Great Again, but I see all those hats.  I see all those hats, changing it a little bit, but Make America Great Again.  I said, you know, today, we just hit the highest stock price in the history of our country.  Your 401ks are at records, your stocks are great, but what it really means to me is jobs, more importantly, than anything else.  We have the best jobs, the best everything, right? We about the baby is born before the mother makes the decision.  That's the first I've heard of it, that's the first most of you have heard of it, and then they pass legislation in various states saying that's okay.  This is a baby that's born, this isn't late term.  This is a baby that's born.  Nobody's ever heard anything like that, nobody's ever seen anything like it.  Nobody's ever seen anything like it.  And that actually, when he had the scandal, that became, can you believe it? The second biggest story.  Can you "Let's impeach him. " But we've created 7 million jobs since the election, including more than 1 million manufacturing and construction jobs.  Nobody thought that was possible.  And we will soon be replacing the NAFTA catastrophe, one of the worst trade deals in the history of the world, frankly with the incredible US MCA, Canada, Mexico, a giant victory for Wisconsin workers, farmers and dairy producers, a tremendous victory.  And we may get that all taken care of this week or next week.  It just needs one more vote and we'll get that out of the be a great governor.  It also sends a big signal to these radical left, crazy Democrats.  It's very important that Tate wins.  Very important.  We're also fighting deadly sanctuary cities with the help of states like Mississippi, which has banned sanctuary cities because Phil Bryant said, "We're not going to have them," and Roger Wicker said, "We're not going to have them.  And Cindy said, "We're not going to have them. " Democrats' sanctuary cities forced the release of dangerous criminal aliens onto our streets.  If you want a governor who will stand proudly you know that.  Carolyn Maloney.  They gave her an election, they can't even find the ballots.  And, they gave her a victory, and they cant find that the guy that is against her, who did very well, even though he's even more progressive, I don't even know what she is.  I've known her for 25 years.  I don't think she's progressive.  I think she's whatever she has to be.  But this guy, probably or possibly beat her.  So, rightfully he's not too happy.  And, they called the election for her and with a platform, no oil.  We don't want oil.  This is during the Democrat deal.  There'll be no oil, there'll be no God, there'll be no guns.  This is not a good campaign.  And then the fake news says, "Donald Trump is tied in Texas. " I'm tied.  Last time I was tied in Texas until the day of the vote.  Then they announced, the second they called it, "The polls in Texas have closed.  Donald Trump has won the state of Texas. " Think of it.  He's against oil.  out Soleimani and said it was absolutely correct and it was the absolute right thing to do.  I'm sure they like him very much.  He sounds like our kind of a guy.  So Jim, if they've given you a hard time, come on over to the Republican party.  No, he's a respected guy.  He said we did the right thing.  Everyone knows.  They're saying, "Was the attack eminent? Was it eminent?" Does the fact that he's killed hundreds of thousands of people and thousands of Americans and horribly killed and wounded thousands and with Republicans.  It doesn't happen.  I always complain.  I always say the Democrats are lousy politicians.  They have lousy policies.  Open borders, sanctuary cities, but they have one thing.  They stick together and they're vicious.  The Republicans have great policy.  In many ways they're better politicians, but they're not as vicious.  Thank you, darling.  I appreciate it.  They're not as vicious, but they have a tendency to split apart.  The Democrats don't seem to have any Mitt Romneys.  We do.  We do.  I don't know. so filthy dirty.  It's filthy dirty with all of the things, I won't say it, but the needles and everything else.  These are areas that were, 10 years ago, the best in the country and now they're disgusting.  She ought to spend more time back in San Francisco taking care of her community, instead of wasting everybody's time.  But taking their cues from socialist Bernie Sanders, AOC, all these people, liberal lawmakers are pushing a government takeover of healthcare that would strip 180 million Americans of their private health insurance.  Many of you have great  They're terminally ill.  They're admitting they're terminally ill and you won't let them use a drug that may work? Let the use the drug. " And we're letting them use the drug and it's working in a lot of cases.  We have transformed veterans healthcare, including VA Choice.  The best.  You know I think I'm a totally brilliant human being.  I think I'm the smartest person, so I came up with a plan.  I'll never forget, I was in New Hampshire, I came up with this idea because everybody kept coming up to went off.  No, but put yourself in CNN's position.  Without us … You know, cable was not supposed to be a good business, then we came along.  It's not me, it's we.  They came from the valleys, they came from everywhere, the cities, they came from places, they're still trying to figure out, "Where the hell did all those people come from?" It's true.  A great Senator from Tennessee, they have early voting, and I was in Pennsylvania making a speech, and he saw me because he had a couple of great Congressman friends from done.  Everything he's done was wrong.  He always voted the wrong way.  Even his secretary of defense, his secretary of state, they said he always voted the wrong way.  He was off shoring your jobs, throwing open your borders, depleting our military, and sacrificing your children's future to China and other faraway lands.  I've spent the last four … He says … Only in Nevada can you have … I would never say it.  What did you say? Okay.  This way I can't get in trouble.  I've spent the last four years for another speech?" Well, whatever happens, she is the one that got me here at midnight on … She is.  So when it came time to picking the head of the RNC, as president, you have a couple of things to say about it, right? I said, "Who's that woman that kept getting me back to Michigan? Boy oh boy, she'll be great. " Ronna McDaniel.  And somebody's doing a fantastic job and tells us we're really pretty far ahead.  Maybe way ahead.  They had a poll.  I think it was a Gallup poll.  all right.  Let security just take care of her.  Okay, you all right? Get him out here.  Good.  Good job security.  Good job.  Do we love law enforcement? And is there ever, ever a better place to be than a Trump rally on some night during some week? The truth, is we have a great time.  But you know what? More importantly we get things done.  We're getting everything done.  But even president Obama's own former National Security Advisor, a highly respected general named Jim Jones, praised our action to take Remember years ago before I ever thought of doing this? I mean, when I said let's do this, I said to our great now first lady.  I said, "Melania, let's give it a shot. " And then, one by one, we were doing good.  And what we've done, if you remember before we ran, companies were leaving Kentucky, they were leaving, they will go into Mexico.  They were going to China, Japan.  They were going all over.  Any place but Kentucky.  You don't read about that at all.  Now they're all coming back. That's all they're doing.  On November 4th, they'll announce, "We've decided to open up. " One of the teachers groups said, actually, one of the unions and one of the politicians in California said, "No, we're not going to do it.  We need to do it.  We should be open by November 4th. " That was not a good thing for them to say.  That person I think was fired, I think was fired.  In both the 2016 and the 2018 elections, the American people chose a president and a Senate majority united in their we have lifted 10 million people nationwide off federal welfare.  They're off.  They are off federal welfare.  Nobody would've believed these numbers.  Someday they're going to write the true story.  Our child tax credit alone is delivering $2,200 a year to 40 million American families.  We have ended, so importantly for you, the war on American energy.  The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world.  We don't need anybody else's energy anymore.  It's so nice.  What happened in the last never be able to open a thing like that again.  So I overrode the generals, I overrode everybody, and now we're making a record number of tanks in that plant and it's absolutely thriving.  But we had tremendous success.  We took 100% of the ISIS caliphate and we killed the founder and leader of ISIS, Al-Baghdadi.  We took out the world's number one terrorist and the mass murder of American troops and many other people.  Qasem Soleimani is dead.  He's dead.  I withdrew from last administration's disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal.  They paid and we are standing up for the people of Mississippi.  The next step to victory begins on Tuesday right here in your great state.  With your support we will show the corrupt Democrats that the American people are not ever going to back down from perhaps the greatest victory in political history.  And you know today with the new stock market at an all-time high, it's … I will tell you something … if we didn't win this election, that stock market would be in one-half.  It was heading in the wrong direction.  It was bringing our jobs back to America, securing our borders, rebuilding our military, and standing up to China like no other president has ever done.  If Biden wins, China wins.  If Biden wins, the mob wins.  If Biden wins the rioters and anarchists, and … Look, you see what's going on.  The arsonists and flag burners.  How about the flag burning? I would love- I would love to have a law … This is so sad what's going on.  When I see the American flag burn, I get so angry.  I get so angry. years betraying African American voters.  He betrayed them.  Look at 1994, take a look at that.  He betrayed them, what he did to them.  He closed the factories in Baltimore and sent them to Beijing.  They were all sent to Beijing.  So many people went there.  They went to all parts of the world, but a lot went to Beijing.  He shattered the plants in Chicago and sent them to Shanghai.  Unlike the previous administration, under my administration we put America first.  And actually, if we weren't interrupted with constant that's me, that's all of us, as garbage, garbage, a garbage.  Remember deplorables, right? That sounds worse.  I think that's worse, but we'll save it for whoever's going to be the nominee, and right now, sleepy Joe's not looking too good, Pocahontas.  Pocahontas is gaining a little bit, because we probably use the Pocahontas a little bit too early, but that's okay.  We'll bring it out of retirement very soon.  They have a new one who knocked the hell out of Biden during the debate? He said, "I wasn't prepared for that question. " That's sanctity of life.  Thank you.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of endless, ridiculous, stupid foreign wars.  We losing our youth to countries that you'd never even heard of, right? Never even heard of them.  We will maintain America's unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength.  We will surprise, think of the surprise medical billing, we're going to end it, surprise.  You ever walk into a cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in less than 10 years.  How about that? It'll be done.  We will land the first woman in the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant its flag on Mars.  We're very advanced.  All made in the USA.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to- … keep and bear arms.  We're going to protect your Second Amendments.  By the way, they're going to take away everything.  They're going to take away your wealth.  They're  You'll see numbers that are unbelievable because New York had a very, very hard time.  A lot of bad things happened.  But you take a few of the states out and you'll really see numbers.  But by comparison to other countries and by almost all metrics, we've done an incredible job, including the job of helping the world with ventilators and all of the things that we built.  And I think our task force has been incredible.  And Mike Pence has done a great job.  Biden opposes the death penalty for cop killers a sleepy Joe Biden rally? Well, he's made some beauties.  I sort of hope it's him.  I don't mind any of them.  You got Pocahontas is rising.  We got Kamala.  Kamala is falling.  You got Beto.  Beto is like gone.  All right, we'll see what happens.  Whoever it is, I don't know that it matters, but whoever it is different, different people.  But I don't know, I think sleepy Joe may be able to limp across the finish line.  But today they announced that they're going to cut way Mexico and Canada to give them some of the games.  We've got a great relationship with the World Cup, it's a big deal.  Bob Kraft helped me with the New England Patriots people.  Tom Brady had a pretty good game the other night, right? They have a good a coach, whether you like it or not, and I know you, North Carolina.  But how good a coach, in all fairness here, is Coach Belichick? How good is he? I know you want to be cool but he's pretty good.  We have to appreciate genius, we Good guy.  They go out and buy Goya because they throw it.  They throw it.  It's the perfect weight, tuna fish they can really rip it, and that hits you.  No, it's true.  Bumblebee brand tuna, and you can throw it at soccer, you can a curve on it.  You can do whatever else you want.  The cops in Chicago, you saw, they're going like this.  It was terrible.  They're not allowed to fight back.  They're not allowed to fight back.  These guys if they fight back, nobody's going with China that will defeat so many of our opponents.  The money that's pouring in, people don't even believe it.  And by the way, the virus, they're working hard.  Looks like by April, in theory when it gets a little warmer, it miraculously goes away.  I hope that's true, but we're doing great in our country.  China, I spoke with president Xi and they're working very, very hard and I think it's going to all work out fine.  Rough stuff, I tell you.  Rough, rough stuff, but I think it's going to work history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we will live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust, it'll stay there.  We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two world wars wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon and built the most exceptional country in the history of the world.  We are great Americans and the future belongs to us.  The future belongs to you.  With your help, your  These are Democrat run cities that are horrible in crime.  There's no law and order, no cash bail, no anything.  You know what? The Republican cities are running great.  They're running great.  So, we're going to get it all changed around.  We went into Minneapolis, we solved the problem like you wouldn't believe.  What did it take? You saw it.  What did that take? I would say probably 30 minutes.  Right? They should have called us in about seven days earlier.  How about the reporter? He gets up there, behind Democrat governors.  And you know, when you look at the suicide rates, when you look at all of the suicide, all of the domestic violence, the drugs, all of the problems, we can't have it.  We can't have it.  Open up your state.  You got to open up your state.  It's all political.  It's all political.  It's all political.  On November 4th, they'll announce, "We're going to open up the states. " They're only doing it to affect your November 3rd great election.  Most important election.  Biden will always do by the timeless words of our national motto, In God we trust, and we're going to keep it that way.  For years, you had a President who apologized for America.  Now you have a President who is standing up for America and standing up for your state, Nevada.  So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and on November 3rd or sooner, get out and vote.  From Carson City to Elko, from Las Vegas to Reno, from Minden to right here in Henderson, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded American thing.  But this Conor Lamb was out there fighting it, and he shouldn't have done that.  And we have somebody that blows him away.  He's more of a hero, he's tougher, he's stronger, he's smarter, he's better looking, not that, that matters.  Under the me too generation, I don't talk about looks anymore.  Looks don't matter.  Doesn't make any difference.  I don't talk about looks.  Me too.  Me too generation.  But I'll tell you, this man is something special.  He's a real hero, a real tough guy, and he'll It was disgraceful.  So people that were going down, "Sir, what is this?" I look, "Oh wow, that's a subpoena. " What the hell is this? They took people … I really mean this.  They took people that were full of life and energy and vigor.  We had just won the greatest campaign in the history of American politics, it's true.  It's true.  And they destroyed their lives.  They destroyed their lives.  They went home.  I could name many people, one in particular, who came down, an incredible young woman.  She ranch, you have no estate tax.  You can give it to the kids.  If you don't love your children … Anybody in here does not love their children? There are some.  Come on, raise your hand.  There are some.  You know, they're brats.  They're little brats.  They're horrible human beings.  So if you're one of them, this doesn't help you, because you'll save some tax.  The fact is, no estate tax on these small businesses and farms.  That's a tremendous thing, because you are dying, you are leaving the business States military.  It was a mess.  It was a depleted mess.  Wiped out the ISIS caliphate, killed our terrorists enemies, kept America out of foolish, stupid, ridiculous foreign wars.  Achieved American energy independence.  You see the price of your gasoline.  When you go fill it up, "Oh boy, that's a nice price. " It's half what it was.  We built the single greatest economy in the history of the world.  That includes China, which was having a very, very bad year.  Then the plague came in from China.  We had weren't nice to other people that failed.  People that didn't have good ratings, that business is a very simple business.  If you have good ratings, you can treat them like garbage.  If you have bad ratings, you can say, "Sir, I really respect you so much. " Get out of here.  Get him out of my yard.  They're very ruthless people.  But Comcast is a rotten company.  They forgot totally.  And they are worse than CNN.  I will tell you that right now.  Comcast is worse than CNN.  We military we've ever had, the best unemployment and employment numbers we've ever had. " Said, "Got the best president we've ever had. " Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Thank you very much.  And very importantly, we've confirmed more than 158 brand new, beautiful federal judges to uphold our constitution as written.  In a very short while, we'll have 182 federal judges.  President Obama left us 142.  Thank you very much.  to call it the eighth column.  That's the big column on the right.  I don't know.  The papers become so small.  I don't know if they have an eighth column anymore.  They used to have the eighth column, was a big deal, right? That was the big deal.  Today it's too narrow.  Think they're probably… After I'm gone, they won't have any columns.  That's why eventually they're going to support me.  Eventually, the Times and the Washington post, which will be dead as a doornail after I leave, and the CNN, of them very conservative were very much inclined.  But I got the people that we needed.  Obama couldn't do it.  Bush couldn't do it.  Nobody could do it.  I got it approved, and from the day it was approved, I got no thanks, I got no credit.  And that's okay, because you know, right? But we passed bi-partisan criminal justice reform and that's helped so many people.  I mean, you know the story of Alice Johnson.  You know so many different stories.  It's helped so many people, especially in the African-American Trump has won the state of Georgia.  Donald Trump has won North Carolina, South Carolina. " Remember that? Was that the most exciting evening, really? Remember? And it's not Donald Trump.  It's you.  It's all of us.  They use the name Donald Trump.  It's all of us have won.  And this one's going to be even better because nobody has done, and then don't even challenge it, the fake news, nobody has done in three and a half years what we've done.  We've rebuilt our military.  Two and a half trillion dollars. is more important than both of them. " I said, "You know, I guess you're right when you think about it. " So we've done a good job, all of us together, as a movement we've done a great job for Israel.  For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for america and we are standing up for the people of North Carolina.  You must never forget that the 2020 election is about one thing thing, you.  It's true, it's not about me, it's about tough.  Take your time, doc.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you, doctor.  That's true.  They get here so… They stand and sit and sometimes days early.  In Colorado, they're there three, four days early.  It's tough.  And we work it and make sure that you have everything you want.  Number one, we cover the facts and number two, we want to have a good time because we have to have a good time.  But things like that happen a lot because after two, three days, it's not easy and these are  They're not really competition for us.  No, they're not. " 500 billion a year, right? He did nothing in eight years, him and Obama.  In fact, I'm here because of them, when you think about it.  Right? Just thinking.  I'm here because of them.  Kellyanne Conway, stand up, Kellyanne.  Stand up.  Another warrior.  I just saw Kellyanne.  I said stand up.  No, but think of it, as somebody saying that.  Now look, $1. 5 billion that Hunter, who got thrown out of the Navy, who had no experience, to be there very long throwing things.  But they're professionals, they're anarchists.  They're paid for by outside stupid rich people that … They're stupid people.  By the way, you know the first ones that get wiped out? They don't have a shot by the way, I'll tell you that, but if they ever did, the first ones that would get wiped out are the stupid people that gave them the money to do this stuff.  Those are the people that would get wiped out.  But you know, they're very smart.  Everything is perfect.  said in 10 days, that's a long… 10 days.  10 days.  That's like an eternity in Trumpville.  10 days.  I view 10 days is like an eternity, okay? So he decided he's coming out and he's going to be out in 10 days.  That's a long time.  That's a big percentage of the remaining time.  That's all right, he's much better off where he is.  I think he's, I think he just… And how about those stories from friends of mine? How about those stories? Was that just compelling and incredible television, with that very beautiful phrase, "Made in the USA. " We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic within nine years in America.  And we will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant its flag on Mars.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  And that is under siege in case you haven't noticed.  You know, your second amendment is under siege.  Just don't going to take away your guns.  They're going to take away everything.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America.  We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to having it, we're managing it really much better than they did.  Remember they built the $5 billion website? Remember that? It was supposed to cost $5 million.  It cost $5 billion.  $5 billion.  I mean, you could get a kid out of high school.  I have a son.  He's a young boy, 13.  He uses a computer.  He could have given them a healthcare site.  I would say he would have charged them $100, Barron Trump, and it would've worked.  He's so good.  "Hi dad.  How you doing, Biden, opposed my decision and called it hysteria, xenophobia.  He doesn't know what the word means, xenophobia and fear-mongering.  And then he apologized a month later.  He said he was wrong, but he didn't say it.  And they didn't cover it.  They didn't cover it.  On one of the single most important policy decisions of our lifetime, Joe Biden sided with China over America, that's closing the border.  He thought it was a terrible thing.  Remember, this was in January.  That's early, real, early, the end of January.  He thought for him, and it was great.  And he reacted very well under pressure.  A lot of people don't react well under pressure.  They choke, they choke.  He was under a lot of pressure and he ended up winning by like 18 points.  And now, he's your congressman.  He's doing a great job.  You got to vote for all these people on November 3rd, Tom Tiffany.  Thank you, Tom.  And we have a great congressional candidate, Derrick Van Orden.  Where's Derrick? Derrick, good luck.  I hear good things, Derrick.  millions of unsolicited ballots.  Make sure you send the ballot in and then go to your polling place and make sure it counts.  Make sure it counts.  Because the only way they can win is by doing very bad things.  That's the only way as far as the eye can see, but they'll correct it.  They'll say, "He's wrong, it was 14,500, he's misrepresenting.  He's misrepresenting. " Now I was told we have 15,000 and we're in the middle of an airport someplace.  It's a wonderful thing.  I actually think … I what's going on.  A bunch of phony people, but this is why we have to send a signal and why you have to make Tate Reeves your great, new Republican … Right? Republican governor, right? Hey, he's a great guy, too.  And all I know is he's loved and respected by your current governor, because Phil is some piece of work.  Phil is so confident.  I wanted Phil to run for a certain office, then I wanted him to do something.  I've tried to get him, but some guys are confident.  Phil said, "No future the damage we'll endure for generations to come.  We have to win.  This is the most important election in the history of our country in my opinion.  And a lot of that's got to do with the fact that we're going to have one extra, but we didn't think this was going to happen.  But I used to say just a week ago, "We're going to have one, two, three, four, and maybe even five, the next President, and the Supreme Court is going to be a tremendous factor. " A lot of people said young woman, an old woman, a young man or an old man and you're sleeping.  So what are you going to do, right? So they want to defund.  They really do, this as a serious movement.  And in Minneapolis, the council's already passed it.  In Seattle, you see what's going on there, it's even worse, okay.  These people are stone cold crazy.  They're crazy, you want to say that beautiful heritage of ours, we have a great heritage.  We're a great country.  You are so lucky I'm president, that's all I can  Sure, it's totally unsubstantiated, sir.  I've never seen anything like it.  Could you imagine if I did what he did? Could you imagine if Don Jr.  or Eric Trump walked out of China while I was, let's say, vice president or president.  Let's say they walked out of China with 1. 5 billion.  Do you think the press would be saying, well, it's unsubstantiated? No, it's something.  Let me just tell you something.  These people, not all of them, but these people are very dishonest people.  Very, very dishonest.  But Two weeks ago, we landed in New Hampshire and the entire runaway was lit up with thousands and thousands of people as the plane was landing and I mean it's really amazing what's going on.  All over the country, it's amazing.  It's amazing.  It's a great thing.  More support than we had four years ago because four years ago I said I was going to do this, I was going to cut your taxes, I was going to cut regulations, I was going to get right to try, I was going to take care of your I ever even announced they were spying.  I guess they knew we were going to win, right? But over that past more than three years is finally being exposed.  And remember this, that truth is a force of nature.  Desperate to conceal their misdeeds, the Democrats are now attacking us for calling out the grave corruption of the Bidens, just like they melted down when we pointed out crooked Hillary's shocking and very many misdeeds.  33,000 emails.  33,000 emails disappeared, but she said they only had to do with her working out at her daughter's our country.  Took too long, it waited in Congress for too long a time.  Incredible deal, and replacing the worst, NAFTA.  We've also just reached a deal with Congress to invest a record $738 billion more into our great military.  When I took over, I will tell you, I became president… Think of it, almost three years ago.  By the way, was that the most exciting night ever? I'm just watching these people, that was one of the greatest evenings in the history of television from a rating standpoint, from an excitement standpoint, what the we are funding for New Hampshire, the New Hampshire Army National Guard readiness centers just a few miles from here in Pembroke and in Concord.  Concord, I love Concord.  I love Concord.  Oh, Concord.  You know how famous Concord is? Concord.  That's the same Concord that we read about all the time, right? Concord.  I love Concord.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  And we recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, been trying to do that for 52 years.  We got it done.  straight from the mother's womb right up until the moment of birth.  Well, the governor of Virginia executed a baby.  Remember that whole thing.  After birth, after birth.  Some people never heard of it.  He said the baby is born and then he starts talking to the mother.  Nobody ever heard that.  That is why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant World Wars, defeated fascism and communism and made America the greatest nation in the history of the world and we are making it greater.  We will be greater than ever before.  Incredible citizens like you, the people of New Hampshire, helped build this country.  And together we are taking back our country.  We are not going to let the radical left socialists or communists take our country.  We're not going to let it.  We're returning power to you the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to took a bad defeat, didn't he? It was a bad loss.  He's one of the most gracious losers I've ever seen, he is.  All Elizabeth Warren, Pocahontas had to do is leave.  If she left before Super Tuesday, Bernie would have won every one of those States, but they split up that vote.  That's too bad, but we have Sleepy Joe, we'll see how that works out.  I think it's working out pretty good.  We were winning so much, we didn't even have, we could have called off the election.  We were winning is a truly incredible time for America.  We have the best economy we've ever had, the most prosperity.  We have got the most prosperity we've ever had.  By the way, we're going to keep it that way, too, if it's okay, who was mumbling, very distracting, very distracting.  It's true.  You know, it was very distracting.  I'm speaking and a woman is mumbling terribly behind me, angry.  There was a little anger back there.  We're the ones that should be angry, not them.  We're the ones that should be angry, but the process because they don't want to spend 10 years.  You know, they'd look at it.  They'd say not worth it.  10 years is too much.  But the DC committee, did you see about that? They want to change the name of the Washington Monument.  They want to get rid of the Lincoln Monument, Jefferson Monument.  Now, we're talking the big stuff.  They finally hit the big time, took them awhile to get there.  But I said that was going to happen.  Don't worry about it.  You don't have a  See the bottom line is I know you like me and this room is a love fest, I know that.  But you have no choice but to vote for me because your 401ks down the tubes.  Everything's going to be down the tubes, so whether you love me or hate me, you got to vote for me.  I had a businessman the other day, one of the most successful guys in the country.  I've never liked him, never liked him.  He never liked me, I never liked him.  I see him in the show.  Sean's got the number one show.  And Laura Ingraham is knocking them out of the park, Laura.  And you go over, Maria Bartiromo, and the great Lou Dobbs.  How good are they? Lou Dobbs.  And many more.  And many more.  How about Greg? Greg used to hate me.  Now, he's good.  Oh, we can't forget… We can't forget Judge Jeanine.  I would be in such trouble if I forgot Judge Jeanine.  No, these are… And there are many more.  I just… Look, I'm just rattling some names  And ladies and gentlemen of Arizona, the best is yet to come.  That's right.  Together, we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Arizona.  Thank you. Doesn't have the power.  Doesn't have the staying power.  You see what's happening in California.  Blackouts, rolling blackouts.  How would you like that in Pennsylvania? The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  Darling, what's seeing, all Democrats.  We could solve it so fast.  Chicago, a few weekends, think of it, 72 people shot, this is shot.  Somebody said, "You mean with bullets?" I said, "Yeah, with bullets. " 18 people died.  Now we're pulling our troops out of Afghanistan, out of Iraq, you see what's happening.  But let me tell you but we don't … there's nothing like that over there.  They don't have 18 people killed or 12 people in a short period of time.  Well, you have 70 people shot, where you have another weekend fake news.  Once we started building it, if you think that was easy to build the wall, we had an entire party that would die for the fact, and I made a terrible mistake in the wall, instead of telling you, "We're going to build a wall, we're going to build a wall," the Democrats formed, it was very tough, but I got it.  I'm a real estate developer.  You can always get money.  You learn we have a lot of little pockets.  We had a lot of big pockets.  But the military was I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  That was a 52 year development that I got done in about a day.  They'd been negotiating that sovereignty over the Golan Heights, I got it done immediately.  52 years, they worked on that.  But instead of endless war, we are forging peace in the Middle East.  It's so great.  Peace in the Middle East.  So Biden's put forward a platform that would end America as taking advantage of the United States where we lose our money, we lose our wealth, we lose our jobs, we close our factories.  That's not happening anymore.  It's reversed.  We were the sucker country for years and years, but we are not the sucker country anymore, and they all know it.  We're replacing NAFTA … and that was a disaster, NAFTA … with the brand new US, Mexico, Canada agreement if Nancy Pelosi will ever put it up to a vote, which is questionable.  Nervous Nancy, she doesn't want to give the people of our to protect Germany from Russia, but Germany is paying Russia, billions of dollars for energy coming from a brand new pipeline.  So they pay the country we're supposed to protect them from, they pay billions of dollars to that country.  We're supposed to protect them.  Excuse me, how does that work? And the great thing is with Jim Inhofe and with James Lankford, likewise, they just said they love you James.  When they hear it, they get it.  A lot of people don't get it.  They get it.  We cannot continue to be They just said, "I just want to be here to watch a speech. " They set up a round table because the crowd was so small, and then they'll say, "It was a brilliant round table.  It was wonderful. " They never mention crowds.  They never mention crowds.  They never mention anything.  I'll tell you, U. S. M. C. A, The biggest trade deal ever signed in the history of the world.  Okay? It is, wait.  It barely got any mention.  We signed it.  It barely got any mention.  They talk good guy, and I said, "Commissioner, what can we do to get Big 10 football back?" "Well, I don't know. " And we started a little thing, the Commissioner and myself, one of my guys, he's fantastic, and within a few days, it started getting talked about, and then we kept it going and we helped him with some testing because we have the greatest testing in the world.  We get no credit for it.  We've tested almost 100 million people.  India is second with 38th and they have 1. 5 billion people, slightly more than you. Pelosi and crying Chuck Schumer.  You know crying Chuck? He cries every time he thinks it's appropriate.  Now, I'll tell you what.  This Conor lamb turned out to be a stonecold phony.  When he was running … It's a very Trump … they like me.  I thought he was a Republican because his ads were so good.  "We have to respect our president.  We have … " I said, "This guy's doing some beautiful ads," and then I found out he was a Democrat.  I'll tell you what.  He's nothing compared have fought and died for it to secure, then we must devote everything that we have toward victory in 2020.  We have to.  And by the way, when we talk about inheriting victory in 2020 in our Nation, just so you understand, under a big tax cut biggest tax cut plan in history, guess what you have? You have a business, you have a farm, you have a small business, no more inheritance tax, no more what we call death tax.  So if you love your children, they won't have to mortgage the plant.  They won't thing.  No, it's a good thing.  I'm trying to convince him.  It's okay.  It's okay not to go to war.  It's really okay.  He gets along with President Xi, he gets along with Prime Minister Abe.  He gets along with a lot of people, and it's okay.  That's a good thing.  It's really hard.  These stupid people that have been running this operation for 30, 40 years, and they come out against me, and all they did was stick us in these endless wars.  We're fighting for sand and  I mean, you wouldn't believe it could be that many, but it is, it's 60,000 closed, gone.  They're all coming back.  They're all coming back.  Right now, just in a very short period of time, we've added 12,000 brand new factories, and many more are coming in.  One of the reasons they're coming in is we've eliminated a record number of job- killing regulations, saving the average American household $3,000 a year.  Total income gains for median households will reach over, ready? $10,000 a family.  $10,000.  Now, under the Bush administration, the the wall.  But Mexico didn't pay. " Mexico will pay.  And here's the thing.  You'll see that it'll come out.  We'll do it sometime during the debate or maybe before.  Our debate, the real debate that people are going to watch, because nobody's watching.  haven't been doing great on the debates.  I have to tell you.  But we are building this wall.  We're over 100 miles right now.  We're going to be expanding the length.  You have a lot of natural where you have 1,978 miles.  You need tireless efforts to secure the border we have reduced illegal border crossings seven straight months in a row, and they're getting lower, and lower.  Shockingly, as that wall gets longer, the crossings get less.  Remember the Democrats? "You don't need a wall.  You don't need a wall.  You don't need it. " Seven years they all voted for it, they just didn't have the ability to build it.  You know it's not easy with land, and this, and that, and property, and rights.  They couldn't figure it out but I can figure it out. to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in 2020.  We have to win.  You know, we have to win.  Because all of these things that we've done can be undone.  And you can have a country that goes to hell very very fast, very very fast.  Only in this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all.  And I have seen that dirty rotten swamp better than anybody else in America.  A lot of crooked people, disgusting crooked people.  it was a terrible thing.  When we close the border.  Too many people that were badly infected with COVID.  When the chips are down, Biden will always cave to the radical left.  He'll always bow to the angry mob and he will never protect you or your family and you know that.  Joe Biden will always let you down.  That's been his history.  At my direction early this year, the heroes of the U. S.  military took out the world's top terrorist, the savage killer leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi and the number he's going to do what he never did in 47 years.  He's got to do this and that and everything that I'm doing, everything that we're doing.  But I want to congratulate the big 10 conference on yesterday's announcement that the fall season will start very soon.  Oh, I hope your team does well after all that.  I hope that team does well.  But I especially want to thank a football legend, he was great.  Wisconsin's own Barry Alvarez, he was great.  Good, got to be careful when you do that, a lot doing such a good job.  But Mark, just a few months ago, I've been trying to get him for three years to leave and we have a great person running as you know.  Really, I mean really great.  Does everyone know Madison? Yes? You're going to vote for Madison? He's great.  He's a great guy.  But Mark had a beautiful head of black hair and I just noticed that hair's turning white very fast.  But we're doing a job.  We're very close to a great deal with TikTok, TikTok but nobody cares about them all, is the lowest for any United States president in recorded history.  That's pretty good.  When I'm in a debate, they're saying, "we're going to do this. " I say, "listen, we have the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country. " African American unemployment, Hispanic American.  Hispanic, we got a lot of Hispanic.  I love Hispanic.  Who in this audience is Hispanic? Yeah, we're doing great.  Well, we should be doing great.  You have the lowest unemployment rates ever recorded.  Asian Americans, likewise the lowest ever recorded.  merit, merit, where they come in.  We have so many companies coming in, automobile companies, companies of all types, and we need workers.  We actually need workers.  We have the lowest unemployment rate that we've had in 51 years, soon it'll be the lowest ever.  We need workers, but they have to come in where they can help our country.  They have to come in based on merit, and we're putting in bills and let's see what happens.  Otherwise, we'll just wait til we win back the house, win the Senate, win the Presidency, do what has to be done.  How do you elect Democrats when they create a sanctuary city of Philadelphia? I don't get it.  Four MS-13 gang members were also arrested in Pennsylvania in connection with the brutal and sadistic murders of a 21-year-old and a 15-year-old.  As we speak, a criminal illegal alien with three prior deportations is roaming free in Pennsylvania because he was released by the city of Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love.  You better get yourself a new prosecutor in this place, I want to tell you.  That's a horrible thing. goes, "the N1H1," and that's an easy one, because H comes before, but he always gets it wrong.  It's like, seven times, "It's great to be with the great people of Iowa. " They'll say, "Sir, you're in Idaho. " "Oh. " I've never made that mistake so far.  But I always say, "If you do, just leave the stage, because you can never recover. " You can speak as well as, I mentioned, Winston Churchill, even though he was a great speaker, he was a stutterer, and he became one of the greatest speakers ever.  You over two years, we've taken this big beautiful ship and it's being turned around very quickly.  Nobody thought this would happen.  You know we won the greatest election, certainly one of them, but maybe the greatest, but we won… let's say one of the greatest, this way I won't be criticized.  They'll say, "You know, George Washington had a great election too. " The fake news right.  The fake news.  But, we won one of the greatest elections in history and because of that, and you would be in big trouble if we didn't, I no railing. " It's true.  So I said, "Is there like something else around?" "Sir, the ramp is ready to go. " "Grab me sir, grab me. " I didn't really want to grab him.  You know why? Because I said, "That will be a story too. " So now I have a choice.  I can stay up there for another couple of hours and wait till I'm rescued or I can go down this really steep, really, really, really … It's an ice skating rink, it's brutal.  So I said, "General, get ready because I can you be here tonight?" I said, "Are you sure?" I started speaking at one o'clock in the morning.  Now it's election day.  We had 32,000 people show up.  It was like this.  The crowd was just, they want to see things happen in our country.  They love our country.  It went crazy.  I left and I said, "I don't know why going to lose Michigan.  Why would we lose Michigan? Look at this. " The opponent went there with Barack Obama and Michelle Obama and she went there much earlier.  Pennsylvania where they belong and you're going to be doing fracking for a long time.  I can say the same because you are really big in energy.  I can say the same thing to you as I say in Texas.  So, they don't want oil.  They don't want fracking, right? They don't want the energy that we know that powers these massive plants because the other stuff is wonderful.  It's not going to do it.  It's not going to do it.  So, they don't like oil.  They don't like the gas.  will believe in enforcing the law.  We want law and order.  We have to have it.  We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed.  We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of endless foreign wars.  And we are bringing our troops home as we speak tonight.  We will maintain America's unrivaled that is best for you.  Remember President Obama? 28 times, remember 28 times, they counted them and there's much more than that I would imagine, that you can choose your plan, you can choose your doctor.  It didn't work out that way, did it? Obamacare, and we're keeping Obamacare alive.  We got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare.  We're keeping it and running it as well as it can, but the premiums are too high.  The deductibles are through the roof.  It's ridiculous, and we're coming up with Lindsey Graham cities also give safe haven to those who commit violent sex crimes.  Since Montgomery County, Maryland declared itself a sanctuary jurisdiction in July, we have already identified nine illegal aliens who have been arrested for rape, sexual assault, including a 26-year-old man charged with raping and viciously strangling a young, wonderful woman who was entering her apartment, innocently entering her apartment.  She was raped and killed, strangled to death.  Sanctuary city.  Maryland.  But these are only the cases we know about.  Sanctuary cities and jails actively conceal illegal alien crime and criminals from federal  Thank you.  He's been great, smart guy.  And he's got a couple of bills that he's putting in, one in particular, I love it.  You got to do it.  That if a sanctuary city causes problems, you can sue the sanctuary city, you can sue.  Will you get, we got to get that one moving, right? That's moving along, right? That's a great one.  A man who, I just did a phone call for the other night, and the people love him.  He's in a rough district, but he's now leading.   They start swinging.  And the other such way, everybody's swinging, at the end, they carry them back and they throw them into the paddy wagon.  They're great.  And these people want to get rid of ICE.  They get rid of murderers.  They get rid of rapists.  They get rid of the worst scum on earth.  And when I called them animals, I said, "They're animals. " And Nancy Pelosi, they cut up a young woman.  They cut up a young woman and her friend, cut them up with a knife because please stand, please.  Now, you won the championship twice, right Henry? Twice.  He won it twice.  Don't mess with him.  Don't mess with him.  And his brother, Alonzo, is here.  Alonzo Cruz.  Thank you very much, Alonzo.  Thank you.  Thank you.  And Alonzo doesn't mess with Henry, he learned that a long time ago.  So one of the best fighters in the world, and he's got a tremendous fight coming up against, I guess the number one rated pound for pound fighter, Justin Gaethje.  Please stand up, Justin. a lot.  And Dave Bossie.  Thank you, David.  Thank you, David.  Great job.  I'm just picking these people out of the audience.  We have everybody here.  The New Hampshire House Republican leader, Dick Hinch.  Thank you, Dick.  Thank you, Dick.  A man who's been with us right from the beginning… When I left here last time, I felt so good.  Everybody coming up to the room, "you're going to win.  You're going to…" We win by a lot, right? We had actually a total of 18, and we I announced last week that we are launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called 1776 Commission.  We will teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and getting better every single day.  We're not going to let it fail.  The Democrat party has joined forces with flag burners, anarchists, anti-police people, they're extremist.  Agitators.  And then they say, "Oh no, no, this was a peaceful protest.  This is a peaceful protest. " They know what I'm talking about.  They I meet so many of the leaders, and their presidents, and their kings, and their queens, and their prime ministers, and their everything, dictators every once in a while.  Every once in a while, you get an a rogue dictator.  And I'll tell you, they always start off, today I had the Crown Prince of Bahrain, and they come in and they say, "Sir, I'd like to congratulate you on what you've done with the economy of the United States.  It's a model for the entire world. " They all say it.  And earlier today … is that? So anyway, but, in Honduras, Guatemala they have like this lottery.  Now the people, I've gotten to know the government officials.  They're good.  They've made some good things.  They said, "Hey we need to take our people back. " They're getting their people back.  Before, they wouldn't take them back.  They'd send them here to go into our county.  We'd bring them back under past administrations and then after that, they'd say, "We're not taking them back.  We're not taking them back.  Take them the hell our of here. be Jefferson, someday it's going to be Benjamin Franklin.  It's all of them.  They take away your past.  They never taken away our past.  That's the way they do it.  You study it.  That's the way they go.  They take away your guts.  We'll teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God we trust.  This is better than the arenas, I have to say, especially when you it.  Also with us tonight are representatives from your state that are fantastic, a couple from outside your state, but we'll welcome them also, right? But these are also great fighters, great warriors.  Hal Rogers.  Thank you, Hal.  Brett Guthrie.  Thank you, Brett.  Thomas Massey.  Man we just spoke about won a great grace, Andy Barr.  James Comer.  James, great.  And from an incredible state that we won 2016 that Crooked Hillary said she's going to win that state, didn't come too close at winning that state.  It's a say that wrong, you got problems.  You say Nevada, they go, what the hell? Got to be Nevada.  With your help this November, we're going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats and we are going to win Nevada in a big beautiful landslide.  Now, we have some special people here, you know the special very special people.  And we celebrate one of the greatest moments in the history of sports.  Some people say it was the single greatest moment in the history of sports.  It was called the miracle on ice.  Do you those numbers, when we hear those numbers, we're winning.  We're going to win Yuma big.  Now you see it and you see what's going up and it's an incredible structure, all capable, all wired up for cameras, for everything you can have.  Technology is incredible.  In total, I've already completely planned for the final execution, we're going to have, by the end of the year, everything that we said is going to be built.  We may actually build some more in some soft areas that we've noticed over the last two years.  So we Joyce.  Great, thank you, John.  Guy Reschenthaler.  Do you know him? Guy Reschenthaler.  what are you doing over there? What happened? You don't get along with these guys? Oh, okay.  That's good.  Now I understand.  That's good.  Glenn Thompson.  Great job, great job Glenn, really great.  And a real good friend of mine, right from the beginning, right, Mike? We were in Pennsylvania and a friend of ours, a Congressman, longterm, right? From Kentucky.  No, from actually Tennessee came up to us, I was getting ready to make a Americans of your private coverage.  You want that.  You got great deals.  You're able to negotiate, you're able to keep your doctor, keep your area, keep your hospitals, keep everything that you wanted.  Now they want to take it away.  Report to an operating room when you have a cold, okay? In your local hospital.  I don't think so.  180,000 million people, but I'm not going to knock it because I want Bernie to bring it right up to the end and we'll debate it the day before the election.  Okay? We with a poisonous anti-American lie.  Yeah.  Get him out of here, would you please? Under my leadership we built the greatest economy in the world.  He's going home to mom.  And now we're doing it again.  We're developing a vaccine in record time.  The other administration would have been years, and we're almost there.  It's going to be announced very soon.  We'll be ready before the end of the year.  And we will very easily defeat the China virus.  That's what's happening.  And we're already making that turn.  right? A month later.  No, no problem.  I was way ahead.  Then Biden comes out and he actually said that I was right, but they said, "Don't say that, try doing it a little softer than that. " He did it a little bit softer, but we were right.  They were wrong.  They handled it so badly.  Just take a look, because we, I said to my people, "We've got to fight this a little bit differently because we're getting a lot of fake news, a lot of bad people saying things", and you we have record stock markets.  We have record everything.  You're going to have an incredible economic year next year.  Your stocks are going up.  Your 401s are through the roof.  I had a little pause today.  People wanted to take some profits and probably somebody said something stupid along the way.  But the stock market's at record levels.  Think of it.  In the hopefully rounding the turn on the pandemic, we're rounding that turn, and vaccines are coming along great.  The job that they've done, the doctors, everybody else, we're of the Democrat party entirely over to the radical left, including Minnesota's own representative Ilhan Omar.  I know you people.  I know you people.  I know the people of Minnesota, and I want to tell you, and I also, at the same time, it's both a question and a statement, how'd the hell did that ever happen? How did it happen? How did it happen? Congresswoman Omar is an America hating socialist.  She minimized the September 11th attack on our homeland.  Where far more than 3,000 people died, saying, "Some people did something big deal. are in the midst of the great American comeback.  Our country is stronger today than ever before.  And after three years, of very unfair and ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades… It was the radical left's pathetic attempts to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy, and overthrow our entire system of government.  But guess what? They failed, and our poll numbers are higher today than they've ever been before.  And we're standing up to the defense of our Constitution, our freedom and democracy itself.  We're doing something that's never been done in the history did before the election, I came right here to Minnesota, and I pledged to address this really important issue, and it's the issue of law enforcement.  And when I saw this man, this great gentleman on television pouring out his guts, pouring out his heart… I don't know him.  He knows I've been good to law enforcement.  He knows I've been good to, as my father would say, "The police. " He knows I love the cops.  He knows that, and so does everyone else.  I mean, it's so many shirts, so many red shirts, We've had some shipments where it could kill half of the country, some of the fentanyl and some of the bad, really bad stuff.  If it were distributed, it could actually, has the power to kill half of the country.  This is like a warlike situation.  That's why you're liking Trump, because you're not going to let that happen.  If you want to stop the drug smugglers and the human traffickers, how about the human traffic and they traffic really for the most part in women, that's what they traffic in, it's women.  They're not got to get back to speaking.  Do me a favor before I introduce a very special guest, I'd like to ask your great Governor… You know, he won like by 16 points.  It wasn't even a contest.  You know, I'm very competitive.  I want to beat him.  Will you please get out to the polls so we can beat him? But he's tough to beat.  Doug Ducey, say a couple of words, please.  Please.  These are great people, great people.  Thank you very much.  So you know, before I introduce an illegal alien for sexual assault.  After authorities released him, he committed violent battery, only to be released one more time.  They're looking for him again.  Isn't that nice? The same illegal alien was then arrested for a third time in September and charged with multiple sexual assaults, including sexual assault of a child.  Now that criminal is once again in Wisconsin jail and I call on your left wing officials to stop the madness and to work with ICE to ensure he is deported the hell back home.  Get him out of our country. we've gained.  They want to raise your taxes.  They want to bury you in regulation.  They want to take away your health insurance, 180 million Americans.  They want to erase American history, crush religious liberty, indoctrinate our students with left-wing ideology.  And left-wing Democrats want to confiscate your guns and eliminate your God-given right to self-defense.  You know that.  As your president, I will never allow them to take away your liberty, your dignity, and your social security.  And I will never, ever allow them to take away your sacred right to  When the so-called people that were teaching how to fight turn the gun on them, and shoot.  We've had a lot of that, a lot of it in Afghanistan, more than we've ever had proportionately before.  It's a horrible, horrible thing.  But I have to sign these letters.  And sometimes I go out to a place, Dover Air Force Base, it's a very tough experience.  Mike Pence goes, I go, other people go, Tom Cotton goes.  We go out there, and we meet the parents and the families, the wives, the children, the She hurried home from work that night and as soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in had been fully, fully revived.  Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in for heaven sake.  Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed that vicious snake.  She clutched him to her bosom.  "You're so beautiful," she cried.  "But if I hadn't brought you in by now, you truly would have died. " She stroked his pretty skin again and kissed him and held him tight.  But instead of saying thank you, the builds it like us.  We have the best in the world and we sell it to allies and they all want to buy from the United States.  We've never had a thing like this.  We are so hot.  We are so hot.  And just a few weeks ago, the United States Special Forces brought the world's number one terrorist to justice.  Thanks to the strength and courage of our warriors, and they're great warriors, the bloodthirsty savage known as Al Baghdadi is now dead.  And he was quickly replaced by his second-in-command and wild.  He said, "I'm saying you can win, sir.  You can win.  I'm telling you, you can win. " He loves this state.  He's from this state.  He said, "You can win, sir.  I'm just telling you. " I had him on for month after month.  He'd come drive me crazy.  He'd say, "You can win, you can win, you can win. " And finally we said, "Let's give it a shot. " And I had Corey, I had Hope, I had just a couple of people.  We had a rather They were rotting you.  Weren't going to have anything come through the Soo Locks.  It's all done.  That deal is all done.  It's all done.  Right? Thank you.  Thank you.  Where are my guys there? Good job.  Right.  Even though you're law enforcement, that's a good job, right? Two months ago, I also issued a major disaster declaration in response to the catastrophic flooding caused by the failure of the Edenville dam.  Where are the people from Edenville? Yeah, good.  No, that was a terrible thing and they're working the fake news refused to call it.  I kept saying, "We won Pennsylvania.  Why don't they call it?" It was very late in the evening when they called it because they are fake, they're crooked.  They are fake.  And I said, "Why don't they call Pennsylvania?" But some beautiful things happened.  And by the way, Ohio, we won by one of the largest margins ever.  The great, great, great state of Ohio.  Remember? Remember, they used to say a year before the election, they said, "Well, nobody can win.  Nobody, unless you birds.  They kill all the birds.  Lowering utility bills and reducing prices at the pump, that's what we're doing.  We are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies, Washington politicians… You know this.  They shuttered New Hampshire factories.  You were one of the worst examples ever.  NAFTA, what NAFTA to your communities, I mean to your state, is incredible.  Shattered your communities and sacrifice your jobs on the altar of globalism.  We can forget globalism.  We want to take care of our country.  New Hampshire alone lost one in four manufacturing who moved in next door?" "Oh, it's a resident of Antifa. " "No, thank you.  Let's get out of here.  Let's get the hell out of here, darling.  Let's leave our suburbs.  I wish Trump were president.  He wouldn't have allowed that to happen. " And that's exactly right, I won't allow it to happen.  The suburbs are the American dream, and I will tell you, I have protected your suburbs.  I got rid of a regulation that played with your zoning and played with other things, where they force projects into the military soldiers that died.  And it was such a disgusting thing.  I said, "The only good thing about it is now I can take the gloves off. " This guy doesn't have a clue.  He doesn't know where the hell he is and they'll give him a shot of something.  I don't know, he's going to get something.  Because I watched him so badly, he performed so badly in the debates, and then with Bernie, he was average, not great, but he got through and I said, "What the hell is he taking?" And we'd extra generator. " I said, "We'll get it for you, we'll get it. " So I had it included in the price.  These people know exactly what I'm talking about.  It's called included in the price.  But think of it, there's hundreds of deals like that.  But you're one person, and that's why I got Mark Meadows involved, because he's from North Carolina.  He's from North Carolina, and he's cheap as hell.  I need some cheap people.  Oh, there's many, hundreds and hundreds of stories.  I could tell you so much.  lot of money for doing nothing.  He wants to surrender your nation to the radical left wing mob.  He's trying to change now.  We say that's not working because we're going up and he's dropping like a rock in water.  And before the China virus, this election was over.  Now I had to go back to work and we've done a great job on it.  We don't get the credit.  We don't get the credit.  We made a lot of governors look very good.  But I will keep your jobs in  It's very popular, but some people it's like a disaster because what it does to certain unions that have a lot of power over the Democrats, even though they know it's wrong.  Republicans believe access to education is a civil right.  It's a civil rights.  20 of 20 of the most dangerous cities in America are controlled by Democrats.  Think of that, 20 of 20.  And so is nearly every major city with a child poverty rate that's over 30%.  They're controlled by Democrats.  We can name every one of them.  citizens first, including millions of African American and Hispanic Americans who are entitled to a government that protects their families and their communities.  In this region of the country alone last year, ICE officers… We love our ICE officers.  The Democrats don't like them.  The Democrats don't like them.  ICE officers are the toughest human beings, and they love the country as much as anybody in this room.  Last year alone they … in this room.  Last year alone, they arrested over 2,000 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, provide school choice to every parent in America.  A vote for republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans, instead of letting Washington change us, despite all that we have been through, we are changing Washington.  We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, and right here in Michigan.  We will enact fair trade deals that create American jobs and grow American wages.  We will rapidly return to full employment, soaring incomes and record prosperity, and that's already happening.  We will hire more world rich but ourselves, including NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA.  He wanted to go and TPP would have ruined our automobile industry.  Korea, I renegotiated the deal.  I took a horrible deal.  That was a Hillary Clinton special.  That was a Hillary Clinton special.  She said, "We have to make this deal with South Korea.  It's going to mean 250,000 jobs. " And she was right for South Korea, 250,000.  And China's entry into the World Trade Organization was supported by sleepy Joe Biden.  That was one of the worst deals your communities, and doing what they do, and we won't even talk about that.  They want strong, these are people that are with you in many cases, Democrats.  They write letters, we need strong border security.  In San Diego, California is very difficult.  Always complaining, not doing great, but they wanted a wall in San Diego, good mayor in San Diego by the way.  They wanted a wall.  And I said, "You know what, let's build it someplace else. " Because California, you know, once we build it, they'll complain.  But then I we're building the wall.  You know the wall is over a hundred miles long.  It's over a hundred miles long already and moving fast.  They went to Washington and they sold you out.  That's what happened.  They sold your jobs out.  They sold everything out.  Globalist politicians allowed other countries to raid our factories, ravage our farms, rob our workers, and ransack our communities.  But the era of economic surrender is over, because now we are finally putting America first, America first.  Before I took office, Washington looked the other way, "I can't believe a president had the guts to do it. " I did because I want to save the American dream.  By the way, a big part of the American dream are minorities who made it and they want to live in the suburbs and they don't want to be next to a project.  Remember? Sleepy Joe.  He'll do it because he has no choice because they have total power.  He's like a puppet for them and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies.  To combat the toxic left wing propaganda in our schools, by our new 100 miles plus of wall.  Illegal crossings are down 78% since May and we have ended catch and release.  That was a tough one.  Our very big and very powerful border wall is going up at a record speed and we're fully financed now.  Isn't that nice? That wasn't easy.  That was not easy.  We're adding new miles every week and we are on track to soon build that wall.  You're going to have a wall like no other.  It's going to be a powerful, terrific wall.  And the panel on top.  Sometimes I'd say, "I'd rather do without that panel," because I'm a very visual person.  They said, "Sir that's anti-climb panel. " I said, "Oh it is? Okay, let's put it on.  To hell with it. " It's true.  Anti-climb panel.  The wall is the top of the line.  That's what they wanted.  Mostly 30 feet tall.  That's very tall.  That's maximum.  It's really doing a big trick.  A lot … Wherever we have it … 100 miles is all of a sudden a lot, we're with you all the way, Dan.  And Jim Marchant.  Jim, thank you very much.  Thank you, Jim.  So we're backing you all the way.  You got to get them in.  We will take back the House.  You know why? Because people cannot stand Nancy Pelosi.  They don't like Nancy Pelosi.  Even the woman that owns the beauty parlor turned her in.  Can you believe that? Nancy Pelosi's a customer.  She turned her in.  She thought it was disgraceful, but that's what we're dealing with, a bunch of  We are fighting very hard for school choice and it's moving along well in Wisconsin.  Milwaukee created the first school choice program 30 years ago to free children for failing government schools, and now my administration is working to give school choice to every child in America who needs it.  As we continue rebuilding our military, workers are building brand new Humvee replacements … you know about that … in Oshkosh and magnificent new little old combat ships in Marinette.  A lot of ships, a lot of Humvees.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened every family and every neighborhood.  We will fight for every vote.  We have to win.  We have no choice.  Can I be honest with you? We're working hard.  We're all working.  I don't have to do this.  I could get off that beautiful plane that used to be black and white with a red stripe.  That was mine.  But that's Air Force one.  I get off that beautiful plane.  I could come up and say, "Ladies and gentlemen of New Hampshire, you have no choice.  You have to say that, can't say that because then it'd lose the whole left and let me tell you the left is running that party.  You take a look at … You don't want to be dealing with the left.  These people are stone cold crazy, you don't want to be dealing.  Meanwhile Biden, he doesn't say a word about the thousands of African-Americans who are murdered each year as a result of violent crime in Democrat-controlled cities.  They're murdered by the thousands and they never, ever mention it.  My heart is with the hardworking patriots of we'll see what happens, but unless we're going to make a good deal or a fair deal for our country, let's face it, we can not go back to a situation.  We're giving hundreds of billions of dollars to China becomes standard fare.  Not going to happen, we can't do it, and we have many other countries also, but we'll worry about them a little bit later.  Plenty of others, they've taken advantage of our country like you wouldn't believe, and I've been saying this for many years.  I was saying this when I was a come on in folks, come on in.  Look at these people.  But you know what? I'll tell you what, it's true.  They cover it because… But anytime I start talking about the fake news media, you see them getting a little tentative.  The camera starts to shake a little bit, and you know, there's another thing.  Look at this crowd.  It's as far as the eye can see, it's a big crowd, right? They never cover it.  I said to my wife last night, we had this incredible crowd.  A lot of to flip the house.  We'll get so much.  It'll be amazing what we can do for our country.  We don't want dangerous criminal aliens roaming free in North Carolina.  We want to take care of it.  This state should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.  Our great Republican candidate, Dan Bishop, will fight with everything he has to stop sanctuary cities and defend the people of this great state.  Dan, come on up.  Dan Bishop, everyone.  Get out and vote.  Come on up, Dan.  the most important ever, but it was so important.  I really believe that this election maybe in its own way will be just as important.  I can't say more, but just as important, because we need time for that tree to grow.  You plant a tree and it takes time.  We need time for that tree to grow, and we have other things that we want to do.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have greatest doctors in the world, labs in the world, hospitals in the world, and we have incredible medicine that's prohibited from being used until it gets approval, and sometimes that approval can take many years.  And I said, "Wait a minute, if a person is sick… " And they've been trying to get this for 45 years.  I said, "If a person is sick, and maybe terminally ill, why aren't we letting them try this new technology?" And so many things are happening, and we did Right to Try.  And it wasn't easy, but I was helped show so many cases, because we have the best testing program in the world, by far, by far. " Biden's record demonstrates that if he had been in charge when the China virus arrived, hundreds of thousands of more Americans would have died.  As vice president, he presided over the worst and the weakest and the slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression.  You've heard that before.  It was the most pathetic recovery since the Depression.  No state was hit harder by Biden's failure than Nevada.  And I was out here and that right about people, some really bad people too.  And I mean murders and I mean rapist, I mean really bad people and they don't get in and they don't get back.  When we bring them back to their country, could be Mexico also, they don't come back.  Under the Obama Biden, I call it OBiden, Under the OBiden administration, our agents were ordered to ignore the law and release illegal aliens by the hundreds of thousands.  And by the way, Mark Morgan, where's the great Mark Morgan? He's around here someplace.  Mark Morgan has been so incredible, bad guy, bad guy, shot somebody right in the middle of the street, who they say was a very fine young man.  Shot him, killed him.  Just shot him like … It was on television.  Two-and-a-half days, nothing happened.  I said, "What's going on?" We sent in the US Marshalls.  It was taken care of in 15 minutes.  Okay? 15 minutes.  When asked if he would cut police funding, Sleepy Joe said, "Absolutely, yes, I would. " Now he's trying to change his mind.  You ever see a guy … He changed terrible.  33,000 emails.  Try going to court sometime on a civil case, and when you go before the judge, he'll say, "Did you delete those emails?" "Did you get rid of those texts?" "Did you this…, Right. " And, now they caught Weissmann and all these guys cleaning their phones because they were under investigation, and they cleaned their phones.  How many were there? 21, but they were like 33 phones.  And yet, look what they do to General Flynn, and some of these people that did nothing.  They cleaned their criminals, yeah, that's criminal, And I just thought of it a year ago.  I said, "Man, this could've been so much easier. " All I had to do is say, "We don't want a wall," and they would've given me all the financing I wanted for the wall.  What was I thinking? We're not going to build a wall, and they would have forced me to build it.  I would've… It's true.  Under this administration, we are also ending the- … this administration.  We are also ending the endless wars.  We have to do it, folks.  We That one guy grabs a woman, a older woman, she's eating a steak.  He grabbed the steak and started eating it, then he threw it back on the plate.  An outdoor place, and her husband standing there like they're afraid for their lives.  It was a terrible thing, and should never be allowed to happen.  A thing like that should just be closed up before it ever gets started.  That was terrible.  Remember that? An older woman.  Last week after a police officer shot a knife-wielding assailant, over 100 rioters rampaged in Lancaster. middle class in the truest sense.  That's why powerful corporations and far left politicians have both sided with radical demonstrated over.  If you look at that, it's over the law abiding areas that we have.  Republican cities and towns are doing great.  We're doing great.  And we don't have crime and we don't have this violence.  Chicago over the weekend, many people killed, many people shot, shot.  They're actually shot and killed.  New York, the same thing.  New York's gone through the roof.  They were up 300% in certain categories. the middle a pandemic.  But hopefully, as we round that final turn on the pandemic, we're setting records with the stock market.  Your 401k's are doing very well.  Your stocks are doing very well.  And you know what? If something would happen where he'd get in, and there's a headwind, believe it or not, that stock market would be much higher, but there's a headwind on the possibility, okay? Everything is a possibility.  There's a headwind.  But I'll tell you what, if he ever got in, you would have a market crash the likes These are the elite.  By the way, you're the elite.  They're not the elite.  You're the elite.  Somebody two days ago said, "Sir, the elite are really working hard on trying to destroy you. " I said, "Yeah, why do you call them the elite," I said, "why?" "Well, they're not elite. " I look better than them.  Much more handsome.  Got better hair than they do.  I got nicer properties.  I got nicer houses.  I got nicer apartments.  I got nicer everything.  I ran for politics once, just phony who pretends… He doesn't have a clue.  What the hell? We're talking like he knows.  He's got guys around him that are pretty smart.  They're radical left.  He's going to do whatever they tell him to do.  He pretends to care about blue collar workers.  After spending more than five decades in Washington, he tells me, "Why didn't you do this? Why didn't you do that?" You see these fake commercials.  "Why didn't you do it?" I said, "I've only been here three and a half years.  This guy has been  We took care of it.  We took care of it.  You saw last month being bye-bye.  I say Donald J.  Trump, bye-bye NAFTA.  We ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new US Mexico Canada Agreement into law.  That's going to be great for our manufacturers, our farmers.  Great for everybody.  Great for our workers.  The USMCA will bring jobs back to New Hampshire right where they belong.  They should have never left in the first place.  Probably the number one reason I ran for office. what it is called, favored nation clause.  I instituted a favorite, so we're paying $2. 50 for a pill, and some nation is paying 25 cents for the same exact pill from the same factory, right? We get the 25 cent price.  So, what's going to happen that'll go up.  Ours will come way down.  They can't believe it.  The drug companies can't believe, and I will tell you, Mark Meadows is here, our Chief of Staff.  Where's Mark? They want to negotiate.  They called.  We signed it.  It's all done. the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industries.  Won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world.  And we are making it greater and greater every single day.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning the power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we can't pick Pocahontas because she was too nasty.  How nasty was she to Bloomberg? Was she unbelievable? Boy, he was standing there.  What happened? What happened? No, actually.  What happened? Mini Mike.  He's another beauty.  He's a real beauty.  Mini Mike, what happened? What the hell happened? He hit her so hard.  Remember? She hits him with about 30 different things, and I'm not talking about our president.  He thought she was talking about me.  Can you believe it? And I'm not talking.  I'm talking about you.  He said, on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of Nevada, the best is yet to come together.  We will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again and we will make America great again.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Thank you, Nevada.  Thank you, Las go and buy them; we threw them out.  And they came into my office and then I got to get back to this guy.  Where's Hunter? Where's Hunter? We had a tee shirt made, "Where's Hunter? Where's Hunter?" Poor Hunter.  He then came out, he did the Morning Show.  That was the last we've seen of Hunter.  That wasn't good.  The morning of his father's very bad debate, but it's, where is Hunter? But before I say the final thing on Hunter and then we put him to rest for a while, we got it's true, because I've said it 50 times, and the fakers back there, they've never corrected me.  No, it's true.  No, it's true.  If I were slightly off, if it were, if I was off by two factories, there'd be a headline, Donald Trump Told a Fib.  Donald Trump gets to be a Pinocchio again.  No.  Think of it, 60,000 factories, plants and factories, closed, closed.  They went to Mexico.  They went to China.  60,000.  It's not even … Take a look at a map and put 60,000 little dots. we must take care of our own citizens first.  I'm sorry.  That includes millions of hardworking, lawful immigrants who waited in line, followed the rules, and came into our country legally.  And among those hardest hit by illegal immigration are Hispanic Americans who obey our laws, pay their taxes, contribute to our communities and play by the rules, and they're the ones that want to see something done and we are doing it at a level that nobody else would be capable of doing it.  Whether you're a first generation or a 10th generation, every American away classified information. " No I'm not.  We are building and we have built weapons the likes of which this world has never seen before.  And I said that a week ago and it was a headline and one of these fake newspapers where, "He's giving away confidential information," these people are crazy.  No, no.  I'm just telling you that- Crazy.  No, no.  I'm just telling you that President Putin and President Xi of China, Russia, China, North Korea, everybody.  They are so envious of what we're doing.  They can't even believe won.  We had a tremendous night and I've never forgotten it.  And there was a friend of ours, Chairman of the New Hampshire Republican party, Steve Stepanek.  Steve Stepanek.  That was a big evening.  And three friends of mine that are co-chairmen, Al Baldasaro, Fred Doucette… Baldasaro, Fred Ducette, and Lou Gargiulo.  Thank you all very much.  And David and Corey, thank you also for being here.  Also a woman that not too many people know.  Very powerful, very smart, very beautiful even though I'm not allowed to say that because wants to impose a $4 trillion tax hike, a ban on American energy, eliminate America's borders, confiscate your guns.  He wants to get rid of your second amendment.  We're going to be appointing very pro crime judges, but they want to destroy your suburbs.  You know, the rule, the regulation that I just terminated.  They want to build low income projects in the suburbs.  They've been doing it.  They've been destroying suburbs.  We're not doing it anymore.  Somebody said suburban women, how's Trump doing? But do you remember last time too? They  So I'm running for reelection to keep jobs at home, to put violent criminals behind bars and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China and other countries.  Because if we win, America wins.  You know that.  You've seen that.  Over the last three and a half years, we've secured America's borders, fixed our broken trade deals, and they were broken like you've never seen.  They weren't even broken.  They were bad.  They were bad from day one.  Rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military, obliterated the like 1%.  I mean like 20%, 25%, they're trying to rig the election.  They should make people, if you register, if you want a solicited ballot, that's where you ask for it.  You have to sign papers.  You get it because you can't be there.  That's one thing.  When they send 80 million ballots to people, they have no idea where they're going.  Actually, they probably do have a good idea where they're going, and that's our problem.  They send 80 million ballots out.  Where are they going? Who are they not going to help you do it.  Okay? Nothing like… you know five years ago, the Democrats all wanted a wall.  They just could never get I built.  They didn't know how the hell to build it.  I do.  So we built 100 miles.  I think probably more than that now.  We have a lot under contract.  But we won our big case just… I woke up.  They said, "Sir, we have good news.  They overturned a horrible decision from the lower court.  You can now fund the rest are gone.  I could have told them that.  I actually asked the architect, " Have you ever built a ship before?" It's unbelievable.  You heard the story last night about Air Force One.  It saved a lot of money.  I said to Boeing, "No.  It's got to have a three in front of it. " They were going to buy Air Force One, 5. 7 billion.  It's a lot of money, but look, it's a helluva a deal.  It's a helluva a plane.  What can I tell you.  I said, Michigan.  We won Michigan, the first time in decades, Republicans won.  She was horrendous, she kept calling me, "Sir, one more speech, please come over.  Okay, I'll do one more, Ronna, Ronna McDaniel.  I'll do one more, Ronna, one more. " I do the speech, two days later, I get a call.  "One more, sir.  We need one more. " But we ended up winning Michigan, first time in decades.  Ronna McDaniel, Ronna.  She was great.  And I said when I won, I said, "Well, who are we going to put terrorists.  Okay? And we also believe that if you murder a police officer, you should receive the death penalty, and that's something that's very important fine people.  I mean, they're in very grave condition, as you know.  Fine people.  He's an animal, and I called him an animal, and I was criticized by people, calling him an animal.  They said he's a human being.  He's not a human being.  He's an animal.  He's not a human being.  Joe Biden opposes the death penalty even for cops who … I mean, look, your guns.  Really, if you look.  And you know, they'll criticize me for saying this, the fake news media, which is back there, with their fake polls.  The same as last year.  We could just put it all on tape.  The fake polls, the fake everything.  You know, they're called suppression polls.  They're meant to make you depressed.  Are you depressed? You don't look depressed.  We have the real numbers.  We're leading everywhere.  We are leading everywhere.  I'll tell you.  I think we're way ahead of what search all over the country for a vet who's unhappy.  I'm hurting myself by telling this story.  This is not a good story.  But remember that, every night you'd have these horror stories about the VA.  You don't see that anymore.  91 percent approval rating.  I kept my promise recognized the Capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we achieve the first breakthrough in the Middle East peace; and, you saw that two days ago, UAE, Bahrain, Israel, nobody thought it another historic win for American justice.  Our brave warriors launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world's number one terrorist, Qasem Soleimani.  Qasem Soleimani.  He was the mastermind of the road side bomb.  He loved roadside bombs.  When you see your friends and great soldiers of our country and other countries, frankly, walking around, they don't have legs, they don't have arms in some cases.  Some cases they don't have both.  You see them walking around, or riding around, or the most brave people, these people have the greatest attitude.  I at getting things.  You must never forget.  The 2020 election is about one thing.  What's it about? It's about you.  It is.  It's about you.  It's about you.  I'm doing a good job as your messenger, but basically I'm a messenger.  I know what you want.  I understand that it's about your family.  It's about your future, and it's about the fate of your country for your children, for everybody.  It's about the fate of your country.  It's about the future of our great country.  No matter The Republicans are going to win the House.  Because I don't know if you know it.  The impeachment hoax, it's a total hoax.  This is based… Just think of this.  This is based on a perfect phone call.  Did anybody read the transcript? It's a perfect call.  In fact, if you go back and look at Lyndon Johnson, all of them.  Lyndon Johnson was sort of a tough guy.  Can you imagine his phone calls? He's probably looking down or looking up, and he's probably saying, these people have gone crazy.   Whoa! That's bigger than those terrible Academy Awards, I've got to tell you.  That used to be big.  Not so much anymore.  A friend of mine, another great leader and somebody that's going to be Speaker of the House hopefully next year, Kevin McCarthy.  Our leader, Kevin McCarthy.  Oh, will that be nice to have Kevin, a pro.  You'll see things get done like you'll never believe.  Thank you, Kevin, very much.  Great.  A very brave man… He took a bullet.  He got shot and he got up.   President, I appreciate it. " I lost all my friends because it's respect for the office, let's face it.  It's different.  They used to be loose, they used to be great.  You could sit back, I'm not a drinker, but you could sit back and have a drink, whatever the hell you're drinking.  And now, you can't do that anymore.  You can't do it anymore.  So I have to rely on people in Congress to be my friends.  And we just happened to have a couple tonight.  And one of them will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration, which now we're already doing.  We're already doing a lot of it.  You've got to get loopholes.  You know, you need their votes.  We have loopholes, like visa lottery.  We put names in a lottery and they come in, they become American citizens.  Do you think these countries are giving us their finest? "Oh, let's give them got zero.  I'd love to have that money back.  It's a lot of money.  But I've warned the Ayatollah and the government of Iran that they must not harm, hurt, or kill any protesters.  The whole world is watching.  It's watching.  They've killed thousands of protests.  We support the Iranian people and their courageous struggle for freedom.  It's incredible what's going on over there.  It really is.  But we're watching it.  We're watching very closely.  And we were ready.  That night when the attack was made on country in your state, so I don't know, and we won by a lot.  And we won by a lot I was telling Mike, I was telling my son Eric Trump and Lara's here, y the way, who was born in North Carolina.  They do a good job.  Lara, do you love this state? And her brother's here, I have to tell you, he went to this college.  And Brad Parscale is here, the worlds tallest campaign manager in the history of the world.  He's the tallest in the history, but most importantly, he's the for murdering and maiming thousands and thousands of Americans, and hundreds of thousands of other people.  Not acceptable.  Soleimani was actively planning new attacks, but we ended his bloody rampage forever.  Yet, Washington Democrats, true, like crazy Bernie and Nancy Pelosi, opposed our decision to eliminate Soleimani, and to save American lives.  That had a tremendous impact.  While we're proudly creating jobs and killing terrorists, Congressional Democrats are consumed with partisan rage, and obsessed with a deranged witch hunt hoax.  You know, we're having probably the best years that we've ever had in the Are we leading, I hope? Okay.  I hear we're doing well.  Be careful of the ballots, that's the only way we're going to lose.  Can't have this happen to our country.  And also here are several really great members of a terrific association and they like Trump a lot, the Nevada Trucking Association.  Where are they, Nevada Trucking? Nevada Trucking, thank you, thank you.  Thank you, fellas, thank you very much.  Great job, we appreciate it very much.  Those roads are going to get very nice.  They're already starting.  Tonight November 3rd.  The people of Arizona, our great state, we love Arizona.  I won it last time, by a lot.  And I hear we're going to win it by even more this time.  Don't forget, last time I talked, I said we're going to give you a tax cuts, I gave you.  I said, we're going to give you a massive regulation cuts.  Give you your tax cuts, I gave them to you.  I said we're going to give you massive regulation cuts, we're going to give you great everything.  We even anybody had any question.  And this guy did kill.  He was not a sweetheart.  He was a bad guy in every way.  But he did kill terrorists, right? And it became Harvard University for terrorists, right? But they did go after him, but he didn't knock down out.  You know what I did with the soldiers? They don't tell you the truth, sorry, because there are a bunch of corrupt people back there.  I told Turkey, you got to defend your own border.  We're not going to defend your border.  And we ships that we sent.  To have an ungrateful governor in New York, Cuomo, to have an ungrateful governor.  We sent him ships.  We sent them ships.  We sent them.  We built a convention center with 2,800 beds, and he didn't use the beds for senior citizens.  He hardly used the beds at all.  He hardly used the ships at all.  He said we did a phenomenal job, and now he gets political.  He wants to get political with me.  A real wise guy, but that's okay.  You got to now rushing into over 60 newly… and this is incredible, brand, newly designated Opportunity Zones right here in Iowa alone.  Rich people are investing vast amounts of money.  Tim Scott, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, came into my office.  He said, "I have an idea that I have wanted to do for years, but we have never had a president that could pull it off. " I said, "What is it, Tim?" And he talked about Opportunity Zones, first time I heard it.  And we did it, and there is nothing, nobody has ever seen anything of winter and it's a great place in the summer.  Those streets are packed all the way back to the airplane practically.  But on June 2nd everybody has to do us all a favor.  Number one you have to get out and vote Republican.  Get rid of these clowns.  You have to get out and vote for really a brave man.  What he did was incredible.  Jeff Van Drew, what he did was incredible.  Get out and vote.  He's going to have a big victory.  He's going to have a know what that is? Do you know how big that is? Where you're able to actually negotiate with hospitals, see their prices, compare it.  You know who likes it? Good hospitals and good doctors.  Other people don't like it.  It's the biggest thing and nobody even talks about it, but I've already put it into effect.  The bad news is it goes into effect on January 1st.  You better make sure you elect me so I get credit for it.  Otherwise, could you imagine if sleepy Joe got in and medical prices and drug  I'm also fighting back against years of chronic trade abuse from China.  And the supply chain of China, which was unbreakable, is now breaking wide open.  And they understand that.  And I don't blame China for what's taken place over the last 25 years.  I blame the people that led our country that let that happen, where hundreds of billions of dollars a year was taken from our country to build China.  It's not China's fault.  In the previous administration, they put our nation's natural resources under lock and key, including thousands and to … He doesn't have any idea.  He has no clue.  He's going to do this.  He's been there for 47 years.  And he just really left.  He left three and a half, four years ago.  So he just left, but he's been there for 47 years.  I'm going to do this.  After 47 years, he's had a change of heart.  This is the craziest election.  This is the craziest … Look, somebody said, what's the difference between crooked Hillary Clinton and slow Joe? So the difference is the following.  They could be so good.  And maybe they'll change, and maybe they won't.  I've been waiting for a long time.  After I won the last election, I said, "Finally it's okay.  Finally I'll get some great press. " They got worse.  They got worse.  I said, "Finally, we're going to get …" I said to the first lady, "Darling, we're going to finally get respect.  We're going to finally get media and press coverage.  It's going to be great.  Look at what we've done. " And I'm telling you, they did you vote?" "I'm not … " And it was like this massive number, right? Massive.  So everybody, they just didn't count that.  So they said numbers are looking unbelievably well for crooked Hillary Clinton.  They're looking unbelievable.  This is going to be a very short evening for Donald Trump.  We finally will be rid of this guy.  And then the numbers started coming in.  The numbers started coming in, and it started with the great state of Florida.  Donald Trump has won the state of Florida.  And then that beautiful the best.  I think it was maybe the greatest, 2016, but we've done a lot and now they're very close to setting a new … I think it's the 118th time that we will have set a new record with the stock market, right? Many, many times, many, many times.  I can't be certain that many but it's a lot, okay? I always have to preface it because there'll be headlines, Trump didn't tell the truth.  So I've always got to be extremely cautious.  We had the greatest phrase of all time and even the fake to be in with North Korea? Nothing happened.  They said I gave away so much.  I said, "What did I give away?" They couldn't find that anything.  I didn't do anything.  They said, "You met. " "Oh, I met.  Oh, okay.  I met. " Now you would have been in war with her.  You would have been in war.  But if you can spend, think of this, if you can spend less money and win, that's a good thing.  So after I won one of these people back there, right back my Brandon? Where is Brandon? Look at these guys.  Look, they're ready.  They're ready to fight.  Hey Brandon, Art, pick out your toughest guy, I want to see whether or not he can take Colby in a fight.  Don't do it.  Thank you very much.  Thanks fellas.  We appreciate it very much.  Thanks.  Great job too.  Great job.  My administration has achieved the most secure border in American history.  We ended catch and release.  We stopped asylum fraud.  We've deported 20,000 gang members and over half that means Obama, they have me supposedly saying to myself, "Well, let's see.  I got a guy named Sleepy Joe Biden.  How do I beat him? How do I beat him? How do I beat this guy? He's such a great. " Clinton, she was easy.  Right? Obama was easy.  The Bush dynasty was.  But sleepy Joe, I'm worried about, right? So then I said to myself, "Gee, I guess there's only one way.  Let's call up Ukraine for help.  These people are sick.  These people are sick.  Now, these dishonest corruption, and the total obliteration of your very, very important second amendment.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln, which everybody forgot.  Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every single walk of life.  We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm.  We are wealthy, right? Are we enthusiastic? You know how many of these I've done in the last four days? People say, "Where the hell do you get your energy?" I say, the election, but it's okay.  Look, he's such a pain, when he needs something for Kentucky like money, like aid, like, he wants me to call one of the many manufacturers now that are coming into Kentucky.  Could you call the head of Some company in Japan, please? I say, "Matt, do I have to do it?" Please, please.  But isn't that really what you wanted in a governor? That's what you want.  He's such a pain in the ass, but that's what you want.  And the job he's done, one of the best in doing business, okay? Does that make sense? So the doctor, White House doctor, highly respected, Sean, Sean Conley, "Sir would you like to go over and do your physical, or do a piece of it, or finish it?" or whatever it was, but do a physic.  I said, "I don't know.  I'm not in love with the idea. " "Well, if you do it, you don't have to do…" "Okay.  Let's go.  Come on. " So we went, we went, and we're driving.  Now you have to understand, they're like a hundred cars.  You  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  So big tax cuts, big regulation cuts.  The Democrats, they want to … the Democrats, they want to just really break us down in terms of our competitive ability to compete with other nations.  Do you notice what's happening with Japan? You notice what's … We have taken billions and billions of dollars in from China.  We charge them a fortune.  In fact, many farmers in this group, because you got to love Trump.  I gave you $28 billion, right? long.  I can tell you that.  We've got to fight them more than anybody else.  But, a man who's done an incredible job in Washington, took over a rough situation, and he's become a real leader, and that's Republican Leader, Kevin McCarthy.  Kevin.  Kevin's working so hard for so many different people.  He wants to see Dan and Greg win so badly.  Thank you for being here.  Appreciate it, Leader.  Representative David Rouzer.  David, thank you.  David Rouzer.  He's done a fantastic job.  Our lieutenant governor who got endorsed by New York's finest.  First time they've ever endorsed.  And you know that's hard when you have radical left running the city, all politicians, the mayor.  I got endorsed by the Chicago Police.  Can you imagine that? I got endorsed by Oklahoma and I got endorsed by Texas and Louisiana.  I got endorsed by Florida, the sheriffs.  All the sheriffs got together, they endorsed Trump.  I got endorsed by law enforcement, everybody.  But how could you possibly endorse people that hate you and don't respect the job you do, and And since then we've produced everything we said and more and more.  Before it was talk.  I said, "I'm going to do this.  We're going to take care of your trade. " What we've done with China now, on Wednesday we signed, that's tomorrow.  What we've done with the US MCA, what we've done with Japan, $40 billion trade deal that a lot of it has to do with the farmers.  South Korea.  Oh, you got to love Trump, you got to love Trump.  And you're great Green Bay Packers are playing San of which this country has never seen before.  Just remember it, just to remember it, because what they want to do is crazy, the Green New Deal, $100 trillion, the Green New Deal.  That's more money than we could make in a thousand years, a hundred trillion dollars.  "We don't like that building.  The windows are too big. " What do you do? "Rip it down and build a new one. " "All good.  That sounds good. " I saved the U. S.  auto industry by withdrawing from the last administration's job-killing catastrophe, the take a year, two years, to get a 100%. " Remember I want to pull them out, we're down to 1%, and everyone went crazy, explain that one.  But they said it was going to take a long time.  I said to Raisin Kane and the other generals, "General, how long can it take? They said, "Sir, one month. " I said, "What?" We're going to hit them from the front, we're going to hit them from the back, we're going to hit them from the, sir, we're going to hit them like they never got hit before, whether we save the American dream or whether we allow Biden to eliminate your jobs.  By the way, it's not Biden.  It's not Biden.  It's his masters, his … They tell him what to do, his masters.  They want to erase your borders, confiscate your guns, appoint radical left judges and prosecutors, tear down our history.  Demolish your suburbs.  You saw what I did.  I ended the rule.  You're not going to have low income housing built in your suburbs anymore, but nobody writes that because the fake news doesn't want to going to have a victory on November 3rd, the likes of which you've never seen.  Now we're counting on the federal court system to make it so that we can actually have an evening where we know who wins.  Not where the votes are going to be counted a week later or two weeks later.  But in just three and a half years under my administration, we've secured America's borders rebuilt the awesome power of the U. S military, think of that.  And I shouldn't say this and the fake news keeps going, "Oh, he's given Trump has been declared" … At first, they'll go crazy.  And then they'll say, "Okay, it's time now to be reasonable. " They will have had it.  They will have had it.  We were coming together as a nation.  Very interesting.  Before the plague came in from China, we will coming together.  It was success.  Somebody said, "What's going to bring you together?" And it was.  We were coming together.  I was starting to get calls from Democrats that … Frankly, we didn't speak much.  And I was starting to a long time.  When the Wisconsin timber industry was threatened, I imposed tariffs on dumped foreign timber and subsidized products, saving many, many timber jobs in your state.  If Joe Biden gets in, the radical left will shut down Wisconsin's timber production for environmental reasons.  Do you believe that? Oh, boy.  It's so sad to see it, and that would happen.  But we can't let that happen.  We've come too far.  We're so good.  If that virus hadn't hit us, and it did, and it hit the whole world, but if it They grabbed them.  They grabbed them.  They grabbed them.  They were grabbing them left and right.  Sometimes they grabbed, they grabbed one guy, "I'm a reporter.  I'm a reporter. " "Get out of here. " They throw him aside like he was a little bag of popcorn.  But no, but I mean, honestly, when you watch the crap that we've all had to take so long, when you see that, it's actually … You don't want to do that, but when you see it, it's actually a beautiful sight.  It's a beautiful sight. dismantling that studio.  Probably it would have been there for four weeks.  This is the end.  But we had two great victories, congressional victories, on Tuesday night.  And it was something.  The one gentleman won by a number that nobody thought even possible, so much.  And the other won a race that he was way, way, way back.  In fact, I shouldn't tell you this, but my geniuses, my people, some of those people standing right there, right there, some of them right there, they said, "Sir, don't get involved in that race, are" because they are fighting for us.  They are great people.  They are great people.  And, they would call too.  Chuck Grassley, Joni Ernst, they would call, "We got to help our farmers, sir. " "Yes.  Okay, we are going to help the farmer. " They were great.  Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg.  Thank you, Adam.  Thank you, Adam.  Great job, Adam.  Speaker of the Iowa House of Representatives, a man with really fantastic genes, got to have like the best genes in the world.  Although you had an ex-governor Ronna McDaniel.  You know, Ronna headed up Michigan, and for many, many years nobody won Michigan as a Republican.  But I used to complain, I'd go there and I'd say "They're stealing your car business. " I'd go for years.  In fact, five or six years before I even thought about running, for whatever reason, they named me Man of the Year in Michigan.  I said, "How come?" I didn't even understand it myself, but I was named Man of the Year.  I wasn't even political.  That was years before I did this.  country.  And we're really ahead of schedule.  We're doing really well.  People will be very surprised soon when some numbers come out, but we're doing very well.  But you were very much underserved for years.  And yet we're investing billions and billions of dollars in places you've never even heard of.  Doesn't make sense, does it? But after years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation.  We are finally putting America first.  Yet the deep state and the failed ruling class are trying to resist any changes to their wall, and it is true.  The people that understand it the best are Hispanic.  So, thank you.  We got to make our country safe.  We've lifted 10 million people off of welfare.  Median household income is now the highest ever recorded in our country.  Think of that.  I say it all the time.  President Bush, eight years, $450.  President Barack Hussein Obama, eight years, $ 975.  President Donald John Trump, three years.  It's actually less when they did the numbers.  Three years, including the big tax cuts that it happen.  Our air and our water right now is cleaner than it's been in 40 years.  Sadly, I can't say historic because, you know, a couple of hundred years ago, there was nobody here, right? I assume that 2, 300 years ago was cleaner, probably.  You never know, but our water and our air is as clean as it's ever been, and I took us out of that horrible Paris accord.  I always say, "How are you doing with the Paris accord?" Don't ask.  Saved trillions and trillions of dollars that was put in that's more fun than a Trump rally? Right? How many rallies have you been to? 80? 80? 80.  He said 80 rallies.  Come up here.  Come on.  Come on.  Come on.  Look at these two guys.  These guys are serious.  These are serious fans, right? Are you with him? Are you with him? Are you with him? You're with him? Come on.  Come up here.  Man.  And look at this guy Come on.  Thank you, fellas.  Wow.  I just said, "How long have you two been wall in the very near future.  And by the way, you have to see.  You wouldn't believe it.  You have to see what happens when that wall goes up.  You have to see the numbers change like magic.  They change like magic.  You ever hear the thing with all the modern technology, all of the new computers, the new genius, the new everything, cyber this, cyber that, two things never change, right? A wheel and a wall.  Right? A wheel and a wall.  They're going to have a lot of brilliant people to let that happen to people that go to the White House to celebrate our country.  And a weak guy named Joe Biden, and he's weak, he's weak as hell, a weak guy like Joe Biden didn't even bring law and order up as a subject for discussion in the entire Democrat National Convention.  Now they're all of a sudden… Now they realize because they've gone down like a rock in water, they've gone down in the polls and now all of a sudden they're talking all, "Well, we have to talk about crime. " Number one, they my kind of general.  Let me talk to you Raisin Kane, get over here. " And my previous general said, "It's going to be a long time before we take out the caliphate. " I said, did Raisin Kane and a couple of other generals that were there, these guys are central casting like from a movie, except better.  They're stronger, bigger, tougher, meaner, and actually better looking in a certain way.  But they're like from a movie, there is nobody in Hollywood plays a role like this.  I said, "Generals, I've been told it's going future for all Americans.  Instead of letting Washington change us, despite all that we've been through and we've been through more than any president has ever been through with these characters and they're falling one after another.  But you do notice that I hope.  One after another.  Oh, I see the phones have been wiped out.  I wonder what that's all about, but that's a criminal thing you did.  We are changing Washington.  We are changing Washington.  Never forget that they're coming after me because I am fighting for you.  And 7 million new jobs since the election.  And if I would have ever said that during the campaign, the fake news back there would have never let me hear the end of it.  Think of that, 6. 7.  And today, just today, a record, 158 million Americans are now employed, the highest level of employment in our country's history.  African American unemployment just dropped to the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country.  Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment rates have also reached the all time historic lows.  The history of dossier.  It was all made up.  And frankly, if the shoe was on the other foot, if it was on the other foot, you'd have many people, 20, 25 people right now in jail for two years and they'd be there for 50 years because they got caught spying on our campaign and it's treason or whatever else you want to call it.  And it's a disgrace that it's taken this long.  It's a disgrace that it's taken this long.  And let me just tell you a little secret.  Obama got caught and so  We didn't like him.  He's not around anymore.  Well we are creating jobs and killing terrorists the Congressional Democrats are obsessed with demented hoaxes, crazy witch hunts, and deranged partisan crusades.  It's all they know how to do.  The do nothing Democrats.  They have spent the last three years, and probably even before I came down on that beautiful escalator with our beautiful future first lady, trying to overthrow the last election.  We will make sure that they face another crushing defeat in the next election.  We are going to have a consumers.  These are all things that we had to fight like hell to get.  We're making less paperwork for your doctors and giving you easy control of your medical records, which is a big deal for a lot of people.  We are prohibiting hospitals from hiding their prices and charging hidden costs.  You go home, you say, "Oh, I'm feeling better.  The doctor was fantastic," and then they send you a bill for $25,000.  That's the end of that.  All of a sudden the doctor wasn't so good, right? We are making companies society, strengthen our country, serve in our military, and contribute immensely to our shared American family.  And I want to just tell you that Mexico is doing a great job for us on the border, and I want to thank the president of Mexico.  You know, it's very interesting, I hear everybody screaming, well, you know we're building the wall, and it's going up, and it's going up fast.  And if you think that's easy with the Democrats who control the House, we have to take it back, but if you think it's easy … But we're  And that's what we're dealing with.  And we have to defeat them on November 3rd.  I want football back and Big 10 open.  And now the other day, Joe Biden came up with a plan to impose a blanket shutdown.  He'd be willing to do another blanket.  And we had to do it.  We blanket, we shut down.  We saved millions of lives.  Instead of the number we have today, 175,000, we could have had 2 million today instead.  It would have been unacceptable, unsustainable.  Unsustainable.  We did We did something so great and it won't be on, but if there's something that's just slightly negative or even if it's good that they could turn negative, that's what they like best.  Take something good and turn it negative.  It's breaking… We have breaking news.  We have breaking news.  These are phony people, but that's okay.  You know, when you think of it, I'm president and they're not.  Crazy.  It's crazy.  You know, sometimes I'll be in the oval office and I'll be with my people.  We have great people, families an average of $2,200 more in their pockets thanks to the Republican child tax credit.  Who would have thought that? We have cut more job killing regulations than any… You know this one.  So you go back four years, eight years.  In one case, longer than eight years.  We've cut more job killing regulations than any other administration in the history of our country, and we're not finished.  We've ended the war on American energy.  They want to take our energy away.  They want to take our wealth away.  They want community, the Hispanic community.  It's helped a lot of people.  It's a different world.  To uphold the rule of law, we have confirmed 187 federal judges, a record, who will interpret the constitution as written.  187.  Last spring, Wisconsin voters, as you know, elected a great judge to your State Supreme Court, and this spring you have a chance to reelect another terrific judge, Justice Daniel Kelly.  Go vote for Justice Daniel Kelly to defend the rule of law in Wisconsin.  Daniel Kelly.  We are aggressively combating the opioid epidemic and we've perfect it fit.  They put it on and it would fit like within 1/100th of an inch.  And I said, "You're not going to be able to do this anyplace else. " I said, "And we're going to be expanding our military.  We're going to be rebuilding.  Who the hell's going to make our tanks if you close?" I said, "Keep it open. " I actually, it was all closed.  Is there anybody from Lima? Is that a true story? Right? It was closed.  They announced it was closed.  It was all set and natural gas anywhere in the world.  Every leading Democrat has pledged abolish the American oil, coal, and natural gas industries that are fueling our economic boom.  Can you imagine this? We're sitting on great wealth.  They want to take it away from us, and the alternatives don't have the power.  They don't have the power.  They want wind, wind.  Wind is oh so beautiful, as long as you don't have to stare at a windmill and your house goes down in value like to nothing.  Steve, if you had a windmill anywhere things not only on the border, the border is one element, and to me it's very important.  Something that they always say about a president, the most important thing a president can do is the appointment of federal judges and supreme court justices.  So by the end of our, of not my, our first term, we will have appointed 300 federal judges and appeals court judges, and two supreme court justices.  When it comes to 2nd Amendment, when it comes to life, when it comes to a lot of things that you people live for, if you enthusiasm obviously was great.  How about all those states that we weren't supposed to win? "No, he won't win there.  He won't win there. " Then all night long, "Donald Trump won the great state of Texas.  Donald Trump won the great state of … " this and that, and one after another.  Was that one of the coolest things, watching their people go crazy? They went crazy.  No, they went crazy.  How is he going to do in Georgia? Well, I think George is going to be very close.  It's going to have screens and loud speakers and everything.  It's really amazing what's going on out there, but after years of building up there countries, we are finally building up our country, that's the bottom line.  The last administration, with Biden and Obama at the helm, they tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals that ever been negotiated, the Transpacific Partnership.  You could've kissed many of your industries goodbye.  TPP would've gutted the American auto industry.  It would've been even worse than NAFTA, and we know how bad NAFTA was.  All you have back to the First Lady, I said, "First Lady, I just beat Abraham Lincoln in a poll. " I don't know if they had polls back then, but Abraham Lincoln.  I always say I can be more Presidential than any candidate that ever ran, than any President, other than maybe Abraham Lincoln when he's wearing his hat.  I like Abe Lincoln, but when we're doing well, we have a lot of support.  Do you know why? Because our country is doing so well.  Our country is doing so well.  When we went out, we started,  I want to get them and help families.  So I said, all right, good.  Look, she's smart.  Go do whatever the hell you want to do, it's okay, darling.  So she had a goal of a half a million people.  She was going to get trained, get into companies.  So she'd call Walmart, she'd call Exxon, she'd call all these great companies.  And all of a sudden she hit 8 million.  Then she hit 9 million.  Don't forget, she wanted to do 500,000, but this is her.  Then she by comparison.  The Democrats will lose because America will never be a socialist country.  We can't.  They're all watching tonight.  They're sitting in their hotel room, little hotels right down the street, and they're looking at this crowd.  The press never talks about my crowds.  Did you see in New Jersey a couple of nights ago? We had signups for 175,000 people.  We had an arena that held about 9,000 people.  We could have sold it out 15 times.  Okay? They don't talk about that.  You know what they talk you very much, but in concluding, this wonderful afternoon, and if the governor comes after you, which he shouldn't be doing, I'll be with you all the way.  I'll be with you all the way.  Don't worry about a thing.  Over the next four years, we'll be making America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we'll end our reliance on China once and for all.  We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States.  We will rapidly return to full employment, soaring economies, and record prosperity.  We will expand more sophisticated, and we had a man that did an incredible job.  He's now our campaign manager and he's one of the tallest human beings I've ever seen.  His name is Brad Parscale and he is fantastic.  It's nice when you don't have to look for anybody.  You just look over and you see a guy who's twice as tall as everyone.  Great job, Brad.  Thank you.  How we doing, Brad? Good.  Doing good.  Got great poll numbers.  We've got great poll numbers in a lot of states, Ohio, Iowa. history of our world, 600 million Indians went to the polls and voted overwhelmingly for Prime Minister Modi and his party.  Congratulations, Mr.  Prime Minister.  That's a lot of people.  Earlier this week, I understand you marked another important milestone.  I know everyone here joins me in wishing you a very happy birthday.  Happy birthday.  I want to take a moment to address every resident of Houston effected by the recent horrible flooding.  The entire American nation is standing by your side.  We're ready.  We love you.  We support election, we had 32,000 people.  Hillary was there, just before me, in a prime location.  She had about 400 people.  I got there at 12 in the evening, I started speaking at one in the morning, it's now Election Day, and I left.  32,000 people, we had 32,000 people.  So it's now Election Day.  I start speaking, I started speaking, think of it, one o'clock in the morning, we had 30, you never saw anything like it.  I left.  I said, "That doesn't look like we're going to lose Michigan. " And  My family loves this country, and two people, from your state, that the first lady, before she was first lady, she said, "You know, there are two people that are unbelievable.  You've got to watch them. " I said, "I'm not interested.  I'm too busy. " "No, no, no.  You have to watch them.  They're so great, they're so smart.  They love the country, they love you. " Diamond and Silk.  They are incredible.  Incredible people.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, what a job, and they're doing very well of terribly wounded people, great people, their lives will never be the same.  These wars produced only chaos and bloodshed.  And all of the blood and treasure we sacrificed, made the Middle East, really it's less safe, it's less stable, and it's less secure.  And I say it all the time.  The single greatest mistake our country made in its history was going in to the quicksand of the Middle East.  We spent $8 trillion and lost thousands of lives.  And by the way, the other side, we can talk about that, lost millions  Think of what we've done.  We will have close to 300 federal judges appointed and approved by the end of my first time, that's an all time record.  That's an all time record.  I've always heard how important judges are.  Now we know how important they are.  Think of that over 300, around 300, by the end of the term.  And when we have another four years, we're going to have a big, big percentage of the total number.  Very important, November 3rd.  And two great Supreme Court judges.  So day.  If I would have said that, nobody would have believed it.  If I would've said that, the fake news would have said he's exaggerating.  And I wouldn't have said it because I wasn't even sure we could do it.  Think of it, 6 million jobs since election day, think of it.  And by the way, North Carolina has had its best economic year in the history of your state.  Our country has added more than 180,000 people to the workforce, and think of that through what we've done on a federal basis.  Jordan, Andy Biggs, Gaetz, and… I just got so… By the way, Devin Nunez.  Devin Nunez.  How about Devin? He was out there when it wasn't in vogue to be saying that Comey was a stone cold liar and leaker.  But, he knew it all the time, Devin Nunez.  But, Mark Meadows is pretty incredible, and do they love… … but Mark Meadows has been incredible, and do they love him in your state.  Do they love Mark Meadows.  Thank you Mark.  Also a friend of mine who's been with us from the deal.  They have to make a deal.  And you know what? It'd be wonderful to make a deal.  I don't think we're ready to make a deal.  We're taking in billions of dollars in tariffs.  And again, China's devaluing their currency.  They're pouring out money, the prices haven't gone up.  So that means we're taking in billions of dollars.  We're not paying for it.  And ultimately their devaluations are going to hurt them very badly.  They want to make a deal, and they should want to make a deal.  time, we had him in a high position.  I said, "Bob, I think you're great.  You're doing a great job.  I want you back in Ohio.  We have to do it again. " Bob Paduchik.  Where's Bob? Thank you.  Thank you, Bob.  Get over here, Bob.  Thank you, Bob.  He wants no glamor.  He wants no glory.  He just wants to win.  He called it right down to the bone.  We had a rough couple of days.  I said, "Bob, how we doing?" "You went up if there is, they'll do a commercial.  This officer loves sleepy Joe Biden, he's so tough on crime.  So Biden's been going down very rapidly in the polls.  And now what he's doing is he's playing tough guy, that he's tough on crime.  And all of a sudden, he goes from demolished, demolish and defund, okay? But he goes from, let's not give the police any money.  Let's not even say defund for him.  His people want to defund the police.  They actually have places, Seattle, they actually don't want to have police. you.  Good night everybody.  Good night. " No, we got to do it the right way.  Republicans … And by the way, can I be honest? Doing this takes far more talent than doing that.  Doing that is very easy.  This is not easy.  Especially when you just left Michigan, and you just left other places, and you got maniacs doing a number on you all the time for three years.  You got the maniacs for three years.  I think before I came down the escalator with our future first lady I the head, which is fine.  And he's standing in front of a building saying, "things are very peaceful here. " And the building is, it looks like the biggest fire I've ever seen.  The whole town is burning.  It's like the biggest fire.  And he said, "Things are very good here, Anderson.  I think it's great.  These are wonderful people, Anderson. " Did you ever see that? It looked like the world was coming to an end.  And we did something in Minneapolis after watching for three or four days, I called, I  It's disrespectful.  Say police officer. " I said, "Okay Pop. " But honestly, the truth is with time, I love you guys whether you're cops, police officers, law enforcement.  I'll call you whatever you want.  It doesn't matter.  You are so great, so respected.  You don't even know how much our public loves you.  You don't know it.  You don't know it.  You don't know it.  But I see this guy, and I don't know if he's done a lot of television before, but he was very effective and very It's no good.  It's no good.  It's no good.  You know the thing we're working on right now? We're trying to get fairness for a certain person who's been treated very unfairly.  A man who had a juror, who was a radical anti-Trump person, and she didn't say that when she went up there and she became the foreperson of the jury and she did terrible things and said terrible things.  And you know how they caught her.  When he was convicted and then a statement was made, she started jumping up and down think of it, we're one day short of a year now.  Can you believe it? Less than a year.  It begins November 3rd this time.  We had that great, great date, oh boy, November 8th remember? Was there ever a day like that in television history? And they have no idea, because when we do hang it up, they're all out of business.  They know that.  That's why I think that we will get … I expect to get a full, hearty, unbelievable endorsement very soon from the failing New York Times, and from the interpret The Constitution as one.  And two great Supreme Court justices, by the way.  As part as … Right? Two great ones.  As part of my commitment to rebuild our military we secured an $8. 5 million facility to support our Iowa Guardsmen at Camp Dodge, right here in Des Moines, Iowa.  Right here, Camp Dodge.  Camp Dodge everybody.  We take care of Camp Dodge.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  Yesterday we just released a historic philosophy, which is radical left, socialism, perhaps communism.  I don't know, perhaps.  It's verging on communism, right? But had she been loyal, she would've left.  She would have quit.  She had no chance.  She was out.  Pocahontas.  She was gone.  Remember, I said, " I have more Indian blood in me than you have and I have none. " I'd love to have some, but I don't happen to have any.  Then she choked and she went out and got a test.  She announced she had 1024th, right? 1,000.  all three because it's a different form of cutting.  You can cut through steel, but you can't through the concrete and then you can't through the hardened rebar.  We got it all.  "And we also need see-through, sir.  Got to see who's on the other side. " That makes sense, right? Not just concrete.  It's more expensive what we're doing, but we're giving and we're building … we should have anywhere from 400 to almost 500 miles of wall built by the end of next year.  It's going up fast.  In all the envy of the world.  Everybody would come in to see me, presidents, prime minister, kings, queens, and dictators.  Dictators would even come in to say congratulations on the economy.  And then the plague came in, and now what we're doing is we're doing it again.  And it's going fast.  We have to have a lot of it done because people don't quite get it.  We're doing record business.  It's happening at a level and a speed that nobody can believe.  Two weeks ago, job numbers came in the single biggest number in three years, it went up $7,000, 16 years, it went up less than $3,000.  I'd say that's a big difference.  And that's not including energy, because look what you're paying for your gasoline now.  Right? Remember those days? Remember those days of $5, you said, "Let's get rid of that big truck. " Now you're all buying bigger trucks than they ever thought possible.  You know why? Because gasoline is so damn cheap, right? Remember the $5 days? Now you're below $2 a lot, right? Below two.  I mean, they're seeing numbers that nobody believes. They weigh about three pounds and if you get hit by a bus, it's over.  They say, "What happened to that car?" No, I think of it, it's safer and it's less expensive by $3,500 on average.  And California wants you to do the other cars and we don't.  We're going to end up in a big litigation and I'm fighting for you.  Look.  Look, it's not the kind of thing most presidents would be fighting for because they say, "Let them pay more.  Let it be unsafe. " They listen to the environmentalists, I don't think so.  Some people did something.  Yeah, some people did something.  All right.  She pleaded for compassion for Isis recruits attempting to join the terrorist organization.  She was looking for compassion.  Omar laughed that Americans speak of Al-Qaeda in a menacing tone and remark that, you don't say America with this intensity.  You say, Al-Qaeda makes you proud.  Al-Qaeda makes you proud.  You don't speak that way about America.  And at a press conference just this week when asked whether she supported Al-Qaeda, that's our enemy.  That's sir.  We're in a depression.  We are? What's that? Joe Biden, who spent 47 years shipping North Carolina jobs to China and other countries, you know that.  And I've spent the last four years bringing jobs back to our country.  We've never had so many jobs.  We're up to 160 million jobs.  We were never anywhere close.  We got up to 160 million and we were never anywhere close to that.  Here in North Carolina, voting is already underway.  On November 3rd, Americans will decide whether we will quickly return to that's going to tell us all about building ventilators.  You think Joe is going to be able to build thousands of ventilators a month? Which now we're doing, and sending them to all these countries, all over the world, who have no hope of building ventilators, and they need them badly.  So it's an amazing thing.  The outbreak was so rampant that Obama-Biden, the administration, told States to stop testing immediately, and they ordered the CDC to stop counting cases because they looked like hell, okay? We didn't do that.  By the way, the reason we and the minds of the rest of the world.  So respected.  Because together, we will make America wealthy again, of course, we did just hit the highest price in the history of the market.  So pretty soon, and I hate to say, I don't want to ruin the rhetorical skill, but that is sort of like getting a little obsolete, we will make our nation wealthy again.  The fact is we have the strongest stock market in our history, so I think I'll have to change it.  You've all heard it many times, right, we for that, Steve Grammar, who's with us tonight.  Where's Steve? Was Steve here? Steve, thank you.  Thank you.  That's a big deal.  Make sure they get out and vote, Steve, because they're playing around with the ballots.  Okay? You know your governor.  So we had many sites, by the way, all exterior sites, all outside.  Today, you'll hear these phoneys back there.  Well, look at that.  Now today you're going to hear them.  They'll say, "Oh, it was in …" Well, the reason it was, we had five sites, all did.  That we went home early as victors, but we had nine states.  They had one of the crazy papers, New York Times.  They hired that guy.  They paid him millions because he never predicted wrong.  He was wrong.  I don't know if they had a contract where they could fire him, but they hired this guy.  We had nine states.  I was down at all of them on the day of election.  I was going to lose all nine, and then guess what? I won every one of them.  to 1.  332 to 95, think of it, we have the strongest economy in history, the lowest unemployment numbers ever, we've rebuilt the most powerful military, it was totally depleted when I took office, and now it's rebuilt.  We passed the largest tax cuts and regulation cuts of any president or any administration in history.  We took care of our great vets, including veterans choice, and veterans accountability.  And they want to try and impeach, it's a disgrace.  It's a disgrace.  So now we have that behind us, and I have to say this, here's where we go, we start at 16, we go to 20, we go to 24, did you see it? Then it says 28, 32, 36, 40, 42.  No, we don't need any more time.  We don't need any more time, we need one more.  A senator came to my office, sir, I'm six foot seven, I'm great.  I'm six foot seven so I can give you great advice.  I said, "Senator, I'm one for one but it happened to be the president. " And now I want to be two for two, two for remember that? That was when the Russians had a team assembled.  That was probably, they say maybe the greatest team ever assembled.  They were unbelievable.  And our guys played a practice game with them was it a couple of weeks before, and I hate to tell you the score was 10 to 3, and the USA was not on top, and this team was an incredible team and they went in and it was amazing, but tomorrow marks the 40 years since the United States men's hockey team defeated then Soviet Union team in the 1980 Olympics. minorities.  They're Hispanic, they're Black, they're Asian, it's the American dream.  And they want the American dream and they don't want that to happen.  That's why I'm doing so well with African American, with Asian American, with Hispanic American and with women.  But don't let them ruin the suburbs because they will put that regulation back immediately, immediately.  And don't let them ruin the suburbs because the suburbs are a special place.  The suburbs are the American dream.  That's where everyone aspires to and that includes minorities and everybody.  Don't let them You have somebody in Philadelphia who's worse, right? Worse.  In his manifesto with Bernie Sanders, that's what it is, Biden agreed to all these things.  You notice now, "No, no.  I never said about fracking.  I never said. " If you don't do fracking in Pennsylvania, 900,000 jobs and your energy bills will triple.  Other than that, I don't think you should have it.  Okay? No, but he said in the manifesto, plus he said many times, we put on the clip yesterday where he, no fracking, no this, no that, I mean, no where they had, I think a few weekends ago, 38 people have been shot in Chicago.  I said, 38? It's not even believable.  And now when these people say it, they make it … they try and play it down.  And you're sitting there, I said, "Did I just see 38 people were shot?" It's just a terrible thing.  And it could all be stopped.  It could all be stopped so quickly.  But they have to respect law and they have to have order.  Law and order.  But these radical lefts will From Morristown to Vineland, and Patterson to Pennington.  From Camden to Clifton, all the way down the shore to Ocean City and Sea Isle and Stone Harbor.  And right here in Wildwood, New Jersey.  This has always been the home of the proud, loyal, and very, very incredible Americans.  And my friends, so many people in this group, I know them well.  They're tough.  They're smart, they're great people.  It's called Jersey.  This is the state that pioneered the boardwalk, the diner, and the motion picture.  And gave the world American little different.  We'll see what happens with Iran.  And I recognize Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Remember? He'd go around, oh, thank you so much.  He wouldn't apologize to you, but he apologized to others.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Kentucky.  The next step to victory begins tomorrow and it begins with all of you.  You have to do this.  Look, heritage like some of you.  I said, "Let's get it down from $50,000. 00 to $25,000. 00 because they're delinquent.  For many years they're delinquent.  They haven't been paying what they're supposed to be paying.  They're paying 1% instead of 2% and 2% is a very low number," and they say, "Yes, we think by And they say, yes, we think by 2030, maybe 2032, we could get current.  I said, "No, Angela, please.  Don't say that Angela.  It's true.  You know who I'm talking about.  By the way, very nice was all a frame up, a set up, but they hid it so that nobody could see it, so they could keep it going on, thinking they were going to hurt us politically.  But now we're stronger politically than we were ever before.  And the FBI also sent multiple undercover human spies to surveil and record people associated with our campaign.  Look how they've hurt people.  They've destroyed the lives of people that were great people, that are still great people.  Their lives have been destroyed by scum, by scum.  An FBI lawyer forged, really big stage, this crazy stage, I noticed he was flailing with the arms, and he was standing on tables.  He was standing on countertops.  I said, "Does he ever stand on the floor and speak?" But he's waving his arms and going crazy, and I said, "What the hell is he doing? What is he on?" And do you remember he made the statement that he was born for this? Anybody that says he was born for this, they're in trouble.  I used to have guys come into my office, "Sir, I'm the greatest salesman.   You know why, right? You know why? Don't say it.  They want to kill our cows.  That means you are next.  And they want to wipe out, totally, Iowa ethanol.  They want to wipe it out.  But we will never let that side get in, and by the way, that's the least of it.  But I don't want to attack the Green New Deal, because they might change it.  I said to her the other day, they said, "What do you think of the Green New Deal?" I said, "Well, it should was no pressure," but he didn't want to say that.  We said, "Say it.  Say it, you crooked bastard, say it.  But he doesn't want to say it.  We said, "Sat it!" I'd like to force him to say it.  He'll walk up to the mic, "Ladies and gentlemen," guy's a total corrupt guy.  Listen, just to finish off, a man who I really, I don't know him, but I respect him because the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, and he said it so strongly, "I have never seen a direct link between investigations and security story was a massive story.  That was the biggest, maybe the biggest, one of the biggest, ever.  Bigger than anything.  That story disappeared so fast.  Done.  And that's okay.  I didn't do it for the story.  I did it because it's the right thing to do.  But if I were a Democrat, they'd be talking about that story for weeks.  With me, they don't even want to … They actually played it down.  And actually, and I'm happy about this, Conan the dog got more publicity than me.  And less than 10 years.  Who would've thought that? We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  And above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America.  We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States of America.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We investigations that went nowhere.  And nobody has been through what I've been through as president of the United States, nobody.  They used to say Abraham Lincoln got the worst press.  I said, "There's no way he got worse than me. " But Lincoln was very, very badly treated by the fake news.  Maybe in his case, it was real.  I can tell you, in my case, it's fake.  It's totally fake.  But nobody's been and should never be allowed to happen again.  Let's see what happens.  We caught them cold.  subject, that other countries, including our so-called allies are ripping us off on trade.  Biden opposes, school choice and vowed to ban charter schools.  Did you know that? Does everybody like charter schools? Everybody likes choice.  In the second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America.  We're all set up to get it done.  A vote for republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans.  It's really a vote for the American dream, instead of letting Washington change us.  And, despite White House and we ought to give them a medal of some kind, and we're going to do it.  We're going to do it.  I told that to Rand.  And the mayor should be ashamed of herself for that kind of a display of incompetence because that's what's happening in Portland.  And that's what's happening all over where you have Democrat-run cities.  Just take a look.  And we're looking at the whole situation in DC, and tonight they have a lot of people gathering, let's see how that works out.  They have to to their will, but Kentucky will never be broken.  Kentucky can't be broken.  You're too strong and you're too smart.  In their craze thirst for power, the democrats are trying to tear our country apart.  First, Democrats engineer the Russia hoax, the most egregious fraud ever foisted upon the American people, the Russian hoax.  Then they did the Mueller scam.  You remember that? The Mueller scam.  Two years and they said nothing.  And then Mr.  Mueller testified.  That was a wonderful day for me.  You remember last week.  that to happen.  You know, we're not supposed to be… We're not supposed to be involved unless we're invited in by the people that run, these are all Democrat cities, just so you understand, including DC.  So we're not supposed to go in unless we call it an insurrection, but that's a big statement.  It's a big statement.  No reason for it.  But you know what we're going to do? We're going to have to look at it.  Mark Meadows is here, we're going to have to look at it because we're not going any one of which could be a great justice, any one of which.  And I did it last time and people loved when I did it.  And I'll only pick from that list.  Biden can't release his list because the names would be too extreme, too radical.  They wouldn't be acceptable, but they will be very radical people.  People don't understand, but we actually won on DACA yesterday.  We actually won because they basically said, "You won, but you have to come back and redo it. " It's almost like, "Gee, come on back, are the ones that tell you all about how to invest.  What do you think? And then they came out 225,000, the market goes up again.  225,000.  225,000.  So many manufacturing jobs.  So many that frankly, we're never going to come back.  Remember, you need a magic wand, right? They came back.  And remember this, we're paying interest.  The past administration didn't pay interest.  They pumped money in like it was candy.  And we didn't pump money in, we took money out.  And not that I was happy about of it, think of it.  We did it with phony witch hunts.  We did it with the impeachment hoax over our head the whole time.  We did it under circumstances that should never ever happened to another President again.  True.  But with your energy and enthusiasm this November, we're going to take back the House, we're going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House.  So we're thrilled to be joined tonight by some of the best, greatest.  I love them.  Leaders in America, Arizona leaders.  places, 25%.  … the dump steel comes in from China and other places.  25%.  All of it.  All of a sudden our steel mills are doing again.  We need steel.  It's not like you could say, "Gee, we'll get it from another country. " We need that for defense.  We need it for our ships, we need it for our planes.  We need it.  We can't play games with steel.  After years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation.  Very importantly, in everything we do, we of the boilermakers.  They chartered in Pittsburgh 125 years ago.  None of you were around to see it, and it now represents members in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia.  And I want to thank John Hughes and the boilermakers here today.  It's a great honor to have you.  Where's John? Where the hell is John? Stand up, John.  John, we appreciate it.  We appreciate it.  Do you know why John is the head? You know why? Because look, he's got the worst location.  I say, "Where's John?" I'm looking in the was before, remember this, this was before, that statement was made months before I took office.  That statement was made months before the election took place.  They said, "Just in case, we're going to have an insurance policy. " That only means one thing, "We're going to get him out. " So they're telling us.  We can't let that ever happen again to another president.  And Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, a lot of people, the great Mark Levin.  We have a lot of great people.  Lou Dobbs, great people.  You know what they Good job.  Good luck.  Is your arm okay? Good.  You all right? Good.  Good guys.  Good guys.  Jared and Brady, thank you for supporting the heroes in our law enforcement.  We all love you.  I'm telling you.  You really set something up that's incredible, and thank your parents for letting you do it.  I watched.  You ask your parents approval.  Isn't that nice? You know what the father said? "You better do it. " Right? That's great.  Thank you very much, fellas.  Great job.  Really a long time.  He's been a good guy for a long time.  We got to … Is your wife, how she doing? She couldn't get it before me.  Well, we had that with Mueller.  You saw that with the Mueller's last night.  You saw that, right? Was that Assad with their incredible daughter, what happened? He said if Trump was president that wouldn't have happened and they're right, that would not have happened.  We took out al-Baghdadi.  I wish I were president, you would had a different solution.  Thank you.  Thank salon turned her in? The salon turned her in.  I don't think I would have turned her in.  I would've said, "Well, you know, she's a customer.  I got to take care of my customers, right?" But she made them open, and the salon turned her in and the salon did business with her.  How much do they hate Nancy Pelosi? Then she made a terrible mistake because you want people that can't be set up.  She said, "I was set up.  I was set up by the salon owner.  I was set businesses.  Sheldon, that's like your small business, right? He is a great guy.  She's an incredible, she's a doctor, and she studies addiction, and drugs, drug addiction, all sorts of addictions.  And she knows more about that subject, I think, than anybody, and she works hard and she doesn't need it.  He does not need the money that she brings in.  Okay? He also happens on the paper.  He owns the paper.  You own the paper in town, right? They wanted like a couple of hundred million dollars too much.  You said, very quickly.  Three years ago, we campaigned across the country on a pledge to make America great again.  And that's exactly what we've done.  I think we can honestly say it's the greatest slogan in the history of politics in America.  Make America great again.  So if you don't mind, the other candidates go, they spend millions and millions of dollars on this question that I'm going to ask you.  They spend millions.  You remember the first slogan from our opponent? That's right, neither do I.  Neither does anybody.  Nobody remembers. on the plane?" They said, "Yes. " I said, "What's the temperature?" "Sir, it's 49 degrees. " I said, "How about giving me a coat?" They have everything on Air Force One, that's the great thing.  Got more televisions in any plane in history.  They've got televisions in closets, on floors, on ceiling.  But, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world.  And, we will end our reliance on China once and for all.  We'll make our medical supplies right here in the United States, and right Air Force.  I never talked about that.  That's something we never talked about.  I only figured that one out after I became president because I saw what Russia was doing and what China was doing.  I said we have to do the same thing, and if you think that was easy, that was not easy.  That was not easy, it was very hard.  But what we've done … You know the wall now is past 300 miles.  It's exactly the wall that our great Border Patrol wanted.  I was hoping a nice got to stop this nonsense, this child's play, we've got to stop, they're great.  You know, I was endorsed by, think of this, New York's finest.  It's very tough.  You know, de Blasio's your mayor, he doesn't have a clue what's happening, either.  I think Sleepy Joe's worse, do you want to know the truth? Because this other guy has just an ideology that's just terrible.  But de Blasio is there, and New York's finest, first time they've ever endorsed a Presidential candidate, they endorsed me, three weeks ago.  That takes courage.  Think say, "Why?" I said, "Well, first of all, it is really a beautiful place," but we won the point.  But they said, "He can not get to 270," and I heard this for months and months.  I had such a headache, almost as bad as listening to Mike's damn commercials about those pillows.  Maybe I need one of those pillows to cure my headache.  Does it cure headaches? I think so.  But here's the thing.  Here's the thing.  So they said, "He cannot get to 270. " In other words, you can't win. 500 miles, but 700 would be good, 750 or so would be great.  We're going to now get it up.  We have all the financing.  You think it's easy getting financing when people put … I can get anything from them.  I can get whatever I want in terms of money except for a wall.  And I made one big mistake.  I should have said to them, "We will not build the wall.  We don't want the wall. " They would have insisted that we build it.  We would have had all always call me President.  President, President, tell me what's happening, what's going on, how's it all going? You're doing such a great job.  I said, do me a favor.  Call me Donald.  I can't.  Now when they say, you know what that means, right? That means respect for the office of president.  And you know what? We're going to keep that way.  We're going to keep it that way.  We're going to keep it there.  But that's why this November we're going back and we're going to win the House.  can't be greater.  It was an original statement that a lot of people picked up but it's so true.  You have to open up this commonwealth, it has to be opened up.  It has to be opened up now.  But there's what I think they're doing, because you have the same thing in New York.  We have a governor in New York who is 36,000 people died, 11,000 people in a nursing home because he made a mistake.  He made a horrible mistake, and I built him a convention center with 2,800 beds and picking up parts.  I never want to hear a President of the United States hear those words again.  I never want to have a President hear the words, "Sir, we have no ammunition. " Think of that.  Think of that.  Now, thanks to more than two and a half trillion dollar worth of investment in our military, we have more ammunition, more missiles, more rockets, more tanks, more fighter jets, and more of everything else than we've ever had before.  And we have no choice.  You look around the world, and we have no took care of him.  How about China? He walked out with $1. 5 billion to manage, and he never did it before.  He didn't know anything about oil and gas.  He was making a fortune.  So, where is Hunter? Where the hell are you, Hunter? I'll tell you, I sort of hope it's Joe, because he will hear where's Hunter every single debate, nine times a debate.  Where is Hunter? … Howdy Doody.  The problem is, a lot of people don't remember Alfred E.  Neuman.  Don't say that.  You look much guy, right? Tough but great.  Thank you very much.  Thanks Kelly.  Thank you all.  Greatest sports story could be number one.  So a lot of people, a lot of these sports experts, sports writers have voted that as the single greatest sporting event or athletic achievement.  I think so, yeah? They put it number one, certainly top five.  In the history of our country, we have a lot of things that we've done to break records.  We're going to go over them, but we've broken a lot of records now, but I you ask me.  And I'm going to read the questions off the teleprompter, and the questions are so easy.  Did you see Anderson Cooper? He's a nice guy.  He's interviewed me over the years, a lot, but he's a tough interviewer.  Did you see those softballs? What do you think Donald Trump is a very bad human being.  Do you agree with that? Yes, I do, Anderson.  I've never seen softballs, and actually they're getting hit by it.  They're getting hit by it.  It's just a terrible thing.  I mean, this go to a private doctor and work something out?" And I thought it was a brilliant plan.  I said, "I'm telling you I am such a smart guy. " I said, "This is the most brilliant thing ever. " And I went back to my people and I said, "I have an idea.  A veteran's sick, they can't get the kind of service they need, they need a certain kind of doctor, I have an idea, such a great idea.  You get to go out, private, you're going to pick out a doctor, you're going to get who has the 401k? And then the rest of you, many of you have stocks, and you do it a different way.  That will go down 50, 60, 70%, 80%.  And if you held on, like I said to do, we went down a little while we got hit with a virus.  Now, NASDAQ just broke an all time record.  SNP, just broke an all time record.  Socialism is the mainstream of the Biden campaign and it's not the mainstream of America.  Remember I said, we will never have a socialist country.  On were going to rip down their beautiful Christopher Columbus and all of a sudden they circle that thing.  They didn't do too well in hurting Christopher, did they? Thank you to our Italian population, we're very proud of you, right? Two days ago, leftist radicals in Portland, Oregon ripped down a statue of George Washington and wrapped it in an American flag and set the American flag on fire.  Democrat, all Democrat.  Everything I tell you is Democrat and you know we ought to do something, Mr.  Senators, we have two great senators, we ought to be greater than it ever was.  That's where we're headed.  Together, we will help millions more citizens know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck and the satisfaction of a job really well done.  With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and very lawful system of immigration.  And we're going to have a lot done anyway.  We already do have a lot done.  You saw the figures last week, but we're doing it the hard way.  It would be so much easier with first question? I said, "Rosie O'Donnell. " That was one of my best answers.  Rosie O'Donnell who violated the campaign finance laws as badly as anybody I've ever seen and nothing happens to her.  Right? And yet ‘jevich violate … He made a little mistake and they want to destroy him.  So we pardoned him.  We pardoned him.  By the way, he made a mistake.  Rosie O'Donnell.  That was a massive violation of the campaign finance laws but Dinesh, Dinesh, they wanted to put him in jail.  I don't know.  I that we got terminated.  Border patrol, great people, have seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics ever recorded in the history of our country this year.  We've deported record numbers of gang members, including the worst gang of all, MS-13.  Thousands and thousands of people have been thrown the hell out of our country.  We've done more to secure the border than any administration in history.  We're building the wall, as I said, faster than ever.  It will soon be almost one new mile a day.  We're looking for that.  Washington Democrats  See, these young kids can hop over the fence like it's nothing.  Come up here.  They're good looking kids.  I want to congratulate you.  You become famous.  They're going to go to Hollywood.  They're going to become movie actors right now.  Right? You feel good about it? How's your team doing? How's your team? How's it doing? He said it could be better.  You know what? You're doing great.  And everybody out here loves you and they appreciate you.  You did a great job.  Good job, fella.  Thank goodness we have better… We believe in borders.  We believe in no sanctuary cities.  We believe in lowering taxes.  We have better, but our people don't… We have some that are very good.  Jim Jordan, good, right? Jim Jordan.  Mark Meadows, good, right? No, we have some very good, but I'll tell you what, we play it so nice, and in the end it's not right because what they get away with… And Obama and Biden got caught spying on our campaign using the intelligence, I put that in quotes, using intelligence to spy wise guys, right? They were shouting at them, screaming at them.  They were screaming at the wrong people.  They went down, they never had to stop.  It was just forward.  It all ended.  It all ended in Minneapolis.  It took, you also had, what? A half an hour? Remember, they hit the CNN reporter in the knee? He went down, Ali Velshi.  He said, "This is a friendly protest.  It's wonderful to see such a …" Behind him, it was all fire for a block.  It looked like Berlin during the  Is there anybody in this place that enjoys burning the American flag? Is there anybody? Please quietly raise your hand.  Be careful.  Could be very dangerous.  The Republican party will remain the voice of the patriotic heroes who keep America safe and our law enforcement.  Right? We are all that stand between the American people and the left wing mob.  If you want to save democracy from the mob, then you must vote to defeat an extremely poor candidate.  Look, I believe I have the honor of running against the worst candidate ever But when you listen to the fake news, look at how many there are.  I mean, I actually had something today.  I had something today.  Are we sure that we're in New Hampshire? You know, you have a reputation.  I mean, I know it's not true 'cause I know you too well.  You have a reputation of being very stayed, very, very elegant, stayed, incredible people.  You're not acting it tonight, and that's good.  That's a good thing.  Wow.  We love our country.  We have enthusiasm for our country.  I a politician? I don't want to be a politician.  I don't think of myself as a politician.  But it really is, I appreciate it.  I've never heard it.  I liked Ronald Reagan, but they never said we love you, or maybe they did.  They're going to try and find out.  Then they'll say, "President Trump lied last night because 40 years ago I remember…" But no, nobody's ever heard that one before and I appreciate it because it is reciprocal.  Thank you very much.  Reciprocal.  Reciprocal love.  It's reciprocal. ever to walk on the face of the earth.  These tough pioneer men and strong pioneer women braved the wilderness and defied the danger to build a life and to build a home.  They didn't have a lot of money.  They didn't have a lot of luxury.  But they all had one thing in common.  They love their families, they love their country and they love their God.  These proud Kentucky Patriots did not shed their blood, sweat and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy "Good. " And he'll vote his own way.  He's got that little libertarian touch.  That's okay.  That's okay.  But whenever we need, and I'm not talking about me, I'm talking about we, we need a vote, he's so incredible and he's become a really good friend.  I want to have him come up for a second.  Rand Paul, your Senator, a great warrior.  Wow, that was excellent.  Whoa.  Wow, thank you.  Thank you very much, Rand.  Great job.  He's a warrior.  He's a warrior, I've always said a tremendous beneficiary of what I've done and I have to, because you've been with me, you've supported me and we've had great victories together, all victories, so I want to thank you.  Now Biden wants to surrender our country to the violent left-wing mob.  You see what's happening.  If Biden wins very simple, China wins.  If Biden wins, the mob wins.  If Biden wins, the rioters, anarchists, arsonists, and flag burners, they win and we're not into flag burners.  We don't like flag burners.  I'd like to say, pass a law, one "Donald Trump is not liked in Europe nearly as much as President Obama. " I said, "Or President Bush, or anybody. " In fact I'm disliked, but actually they respect us, that's more important.  Look at that beautiful baby, look at that beautiful baby.  Wow, what a baby? What a baby? That is a beautiful baby.  That's like from an advertisement, perfect.  Look how happy that baby is, so beautiful.  Thank you darling, that's really nice.  It's a great thing, is that your husband? That's a great thing, thank you.  Congratulations husband.  If you don't love your children, it doesn't matter.  Don't leave it to them, if you don't love.  If your children are no good to you, don't give them anything.  Let them go out and work like hell.  No, if you love… Does anybody in this incredible audience… Man, this is a big building.  Does anybody not love their children? Anybody? Do I have a hand? Do I have a… There's a hand.  You've got to be kidding.  You've got to be kidding.  So then you don't care about the tax.   You know, we were paying hundreds of millions of dollars to Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, hundreds of millions.  And I said, "Well, why are we doing that?" And they wouldn't take.  When we caught a murderer and we wanted to bring it back to one of those countries, they wouldn't take him.  And they wouldn't take him under the Obama administration.  So we got stuck with them because they'd fly in.  They'd say, "Don't land your plane. " And I said something very simple.  I said, "That's okay.  We don't have to  Hope that we never have to use them.  My attitude was that, and I've learned this a long time ago, by having them, we keep ourselves out of war, as opposed to bringing ourselves in war.  But, we have built and created weapons, the likes of which this world has never seen before.  And, we don't have to talk about it too much, nor do I really want to talk about it.  When I ban travel from China, Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic, he said, "He's xenophobic. " What does that mean? Joe, tell  So it just happened.  I'm just very honored by it.  And Biden's anti-police crusade must stop.  It's got to stop, it's got to stop now.  Furthermore, the corporations, these poor, stupid people that run the … They got paid a lot of money.  They're weak, ineffective people, let's face it.  They're funding anti-police organizations and other organizations that are … It's so embarrassing.  And I don't mean for a little.  They gave $100 million and 250 … You're talking about serious money.  You're talking about serious money, and that money see what it is, but they don't even a breath because they're called suppression poles and they're no different than all of the dishonest reporting that you people see.  They're no different.  They're suppression polls, and I'll tell you what.  We're going to win the state of New Mexico and I'll be so surprised if we don't.  I'll be so surprised.  No, we're going to win New Mexico.  You know, when I came here during the last election, came here a little because I was told very hard to win and I came here back sooner then anybody ever thought and it'll be better then ever.  Right? No doubt about it.  I also want to give a special recognition to the many non-governmental organizations doing so much to help people recover from Dorian, in particular, Franklin Graham.  He's a wonderful guy.  He's got an organization, Samaritan's Purse, based right here in North Carolina and the work that Franklin and his family and all of those that are with Franklin Graham we want to thank them.  Special, great people.  Great People.  Thank you Franklin.  Thank you.  worse.  They're exactly the same.  You know, people still, they want to go out and buy the name.  You know? I do.  I do.  You know? Because it's just because we're stupid.  No, it's true.  They're exactly the same.  We're approving so many of the generic drugs, a record number.  Nobody's ever approved so much.  The drug companies hate it.  They hate it.  Never happened like what we're doing.  We also took down the trial periods from 12 years down to five or six years.  They'd  But we have some great ones too on Fox.  We surged rapid testing kits to every nursing home in America.  We learned a lot, through pioneering therapies, we reduced the fatality rate by 85% since April.  Think of that? 85%.  We've come up with things.  They're waiting to see what's coming over the next few months in terms of therapeutics, which to me is even more important than the vaccine.  You go into the hospital, you make people better.  You give them a shot, you do a transfusion.  You make people With us, we've done so much.  We have done so much on so many different fronts.  Remember North Korea? Remember? They were going to be at war with North Korea.  Where's the war? Where's the war? Where's the war? And we have a good relationship with Kim Jong-un.  Who knows what happens? All I know is, we're not in war and that's okay.  They said, "But he gave away so much. " I said, "I gave away nothing. " "No, he gave away so much. " When I said, "What did they give away?" You late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the party of honest Abe Lincoln.  Party of Abe Lincoln.  I told you about judges.  I'm telling you about so many other things.  There's nobody that's ever done what we're doing.  You look at school choice for every child in America who needs it, including the 50,000 Pennsylvania students who your Democrat governor has blocked from getting school choice scholarships.  No scholarships available.  What's that all about? How did debate.  I think it will be brought up in the debate, I think.  Where is Hunter? Where is Hunter? You know where Hunter is? He's probably on the Riviera having a very good time.  He's giving some great energy advice.  He's learning.  He's taking a night class on energy for 180 grand.  Where is Hunter? They're corrupt.  Remember Joe with a prosecutor? $ 1 billion, I'm not giving it to them until they get those prosecutors away from my son or whatever the hell he said, that crazy company over in Ukraine.  there.  They're trying to find… "He put the comma in the wrong place.  He didn't make that word plural, therefore he lied. " Now I've got to be very accurate because all these numbers, they check them out.  "They're in there, checking them out.  Check on the African American unemployment, please. " Please tell me it's not historic.  These people are among the most dishonest human beings on earth.  Not all of them.  Workers without a high school diploma.  We have millions of people that didn't go through high school.  They stop surprise medical bill and Barron's is going to be very happy.  I signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very fast.  You know, a man that does this very professionally is great, into the healthcare business and you have to be careful when you say it, but you know it was just a very strong statement.  But he said, "Sir, price transparency in hospitals.  Where you can bid it out and you can look at the prices.  Right now you can't okay with me, but it'll be interesting.  I'm going to be, we're going to have a big rating on that.  He's been doing it all his life.  He's been doing it for 47 years and I've just started doing this stuff.  I'm just starting.  But, I'm just thinking, but I did it more in 47 months than he did in 47 years.  That's true.  That's true.  You look at what we've done.  No, it's true.  That's actually true.  He did a lot of negative stuff too.  You have values that built this magnificent country.  You have to look at some of their recent comments which are never talked about.  When you see the four Congress women.  Oh, isn't that lovely? I'll give you just a couple, I've had pages and pages, but we don't want to bore you.  We don't want to go too long.  But we have to give a couple, because that's the great thing about live television.  They can't cut it.  Representative Ilhan Omar, of a really great state, I almost won the first time in decades and terms of what we're doing right now.  Don't forget, it's a long way to the election.  You know, we have what, 10 months? That's a long way.  This is my first stop of the year, first major stop of the year.  This is it.  And we start.  By the way, let's do one of those polls right now, do you mind? Is there anything more fun than a Trump rally? Here we are.  Anything more fun than a Trump rally? Here we are.  We have the greatest phrase of all time, Make oh boy.  He's a smart guy, Meadows, great, great guy, North Carolina, in just three and a half years, we obliterated the ISIS caliphate.  Remember when I had it down to 99%, they said, "You got to finish it. " I said, "Let somebody else finish it. " And we went, and we finished it.  We fixed our disastrous trade deals, which we have.  China's now paying us billions and billions of dollars.  But you know, I view it differently now, I view China much differently now, after the plague came in, I view it and warriors of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  Loyal citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  The great state of Kentucky was settled by some of the most devoted and courageous people she said to her people, "What the hell? Nobody ever told me this was the call. " But she keeps going anyway because the press is fake and they play right into their hands.  The do nothing democratic extremists have gone so far left that they believe it should not be a crime to cross our border illegally, and it should be a crime to have a totally appropriate casual, beautiful, accurate phone call with a foreign leader.  I don't think so.  As our brilliant White House counsel wrote to the Democrats yesterday, he said, "Their highly sir. " I have friends see.  I don't have too many friends up because I used to be comfortable.  You have to be comfortable with people, right? I have friends, I have one friend, Richard.  I talk about him all the time, but multiply this times a hundred people.  Richard used to call me up five, six years ago.  "Hey, let's have dinner. " "All right.  Where do you want to go?" "I don't know.  Go to some crazy restaurant. " Today the restaurants are all closed in New York.  They don't Mexico, they'd go to Canada, they'd close up, they'd buy from China.  Now they're all coming back, new ones, old ones, they're all coming back, and many are coming right here to Ohio.  And just in case you didn't know it, Ohio just had the best year economically in the history of your state.  That's not bad, that's not bad.  And this year's going to be even better and maybe much better.  But weeks ago, I signed the largest ever investment in the United States military, $ 738 billion, and we created the sixth branch too expensive.  It's lousy healthcare.  But we got rid of the worst part of it.  Individual mandate, individual mandate, where you have the privilege of buying the right not to have to pay for expensive insurance.  that's no good health insurance.  And we won't … And you got to remember this.  Republicans, and I speak for every one of them, we will always protect pre-existing conditions.  We're going to protect, always.  Right, got to do it.  Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline a roller coaster ride down for the farmer.  Soybeans.  Take a look at it all.  It was just a one way street.  Everybody was ripping off the American farmer.  Now you're going to see numbers that are going to be great.  Look at even what's happened recently.  It's incredible what's going on and I love it, because you deserve it.  You suffered a lot, with people that were stupid.  They were stupid! Under three years of my administration, net farm income has already gone up nearly 50% and will now be And yet, for whatever reason, it's been quite a while since a Republican won this state.  But we're going to win this state.  And I think we're going to win this state easy.  You had to see the people all the way in from the airport.  That was a long drive by the way, 35 minutes.  That was a long drive.  But all the way in, we had people, and they were waving.  And I didn't see any negative hand gesture, right? No, I think we're going to do great here.  And can't watch tonight.  The wind is not blowing. " "Sorry, you can't watch tonight.  The wind is not blowing. " And she looks at me, "I like the old days.  It's much better. " But the rhetoric of Biden and the radical left puts your law enforcement in serious danger.  Last weekend, two Los Angeles sheriff's deputies were ambushed and shot at point blank range.  And we have everybody looking for that creep that did it.  I called him an animal the other night.  I said, "He's an animal," and we were challenged Let's see what happens.  But if we didn't have to… That takes time, and energy, and all other things.  31].  She could have said, "Okay. " She could have said, "You got me. " But she said, "I got set up by the beauty parlor owner," who happens to be a Trump person by the way.  I like the beauty parlor owner.  She said, "I got set up by the owner of the beauty parlor.  She set me up. " I said, "How are you going to deal with Putin, Kim Jong-un, and President all did the same exact accident.  Which if you knew anything about phones, it's almost an impossibility to do it once.  Let alone 31 different times.  So we caught them and that's called obstruction.  We have to remember that's called obstruction.  That was the Mueller group.  That was a Mueller group.  All those phones, they were wiped so clean.  And Hillary got a subpoena on the 30.  I said, "Forget about these things because you'll find them.  They have them.  They're in the state department. " I have no used to say, how do we allow these companies to close, fire everybody, go to another country? Mexico, wherever it may be, make product, sell the product into our country, pay no tax.  Who the hell would allow this to happen? Who would allow to happen? It's like in South Korea.  I went to him, I said, "Listen, your deal is no good.  We have to make a new deal. " South Korea, we're protecting them all, all these different things.  I said, "Number one, you've got to pay us more. " They agreed to.  people.  A friend of mine for a long time, he said right from the beginning, "You're going to win this state, sir. " We met him at the primaries.  Chairman of New Hampshire Republican Party Steven Stepanek.  Steven.  Hi, Steve.  Great Steve.  Co-chairman of my New Hampshire campaign Lou Gargiulo.  Where's Lou? Lou Gargiulo.  Hi, Lou.  How am I doing? Are we winning, Lou? Lou, are we winning? Thank you.  You said yes.  If he said no, he's out of here.  A friend of mine and a friend Two-thirds.  And that's in a short period of time.  Give me a little bit more time, okay? The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world.  And this means more jobs, higher wages, and American energy independence, which is what we have.  A few years ago, if we had a problem like you saw two days ago in the Middle East, we would've been in a panic.  Although, not if I were your president.  We never panic.  We don't want to panic.  But it was won of all of us together because we all worked hard.  I was the messenger, but we all worked hard.  That was our victory, not my victory.  But that was one of the greatest nights in the history of television, one of the greatest nights, and hopefully it'll go down when we're allowed to get all of this stuff seeded… You know, it's like a tree.  You plant it.  You plant it.  It has to go, but it needs a little… That's why we need the four more additionally years.  It's done great … Look, until you get rid of it, you never did great, but we have done numbers that nobody thought possible.  In 2018, drug overdose deaths, the overdose deaths, fell for the first time in decades, including by 10% in the state of Wisconsin, 17, 18, 19 and even 21% in a couple of states.  China is now putting a big stop, a big lid on Fentanyl, which is a disaster coming out of China.  Said to president, "You've got to do it.  People are dying, got to do it. " They're doing it. Hispanics.  Get out and vote.  You know, just before the last election, the Cubans from Miami where we got a tremendous percentage of the vote, close to 90%.  they gave me the Bay of Pigs award.  Can you imagine, right? The Bay of Pigs award.  And the Venezuelans and the Cubans are all for Trump, I will tell you that.  They're all for Trump.  They like what we're doing.  With the help of, and Steve, I want to thank you very much by the way, and you were incredible on CNN, and money.  It's about other things.  There are other things involved.  It's not just about money.  In the old days, my father would teach me, "If you can win and spend less, that's a good thing. " I remember after I won and I won decisively look, 306 to 223.  That's a lot.  306 delegates, 306, that's decisive.  We won Michigan and we're going to win it again.  We're up in a poll just now.  Oh, they're going crazy.  They're going crazy.  We won Wisconsin.  We won Pennsylvania.  Amendment.  So Tate's running against a liberal Democrat named Jim Hood.  Now all I know about Jim Hood is he fought very hard to elect crooked Hillary Clinton and Barack Hussein Obama.  Isn't that nice? He wanted Obama to win so badly and then he wanted Hillary to win.  And that's not the kind of guy we need here.  Not in Mississippi.  He's supported by extreme leftists like Stacey Abrams, who, by the way went down to defeat in front of a terrific gentlemen from the great state of Georgia, Brian Kemp.  And been the same.  His house is a disaster now.  Like somebody said he just sold it.  But you know what? Because of the Trump economy, I'll bet he sold it for a big, big, fat, beautiful profit.  Where is Steve? Steve Stepanek and his wife, who's incredible.  Did you make a lot of money on the house? We destroyed the house.  This was the beginning.  He held some kind of a meeting for me, and he has a nice house, but literally hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people showed up and they They want social healthcare where you don't… Remember Obama 28 times, you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan, that didn't work out too well, right.  Why haven't they looked into that one, 28 times.  Well, under Medicare for All, but it's basically socialized healthcare, you will never have your doctor, you will never have your plan.  You'll have horrible healthcare.  You're going to wait long times, long times.  And, he wants to wipe out 180 million private healthcare plans that people love, 180 million plans.  I don't think so.  I saved it.  We are stopping surprise medical billing and making everything transparent.  That's a big deal, and that will take effect starting in about two months from now.  Everything's transparent.  You'll be able to see pricing.  You'll be able to go and price other hospitals, other doctors.  It's going to be an incredible thing.  Nobody believes I was able to do it, but we did it.  We are defending your right to keep the doctor and the plan of your choice.  We are lowering drug prices.  The Democrats are increasing died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020 November 3rd.  November 3rd.  Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all.  With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration.  We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped time.  This time, I hear you're even, and maybe even ahead, and we're going to win with John James.  He's a great guy, but I'm going to introduce him in a second.  I'm running for reelection to keep jobs in Michigan.  We have got a lot of … Last year before the China plague came in, we have the China plague.  Thank you China very much.  Should have never let that happen.  They should have never, ever let it happen.  They stopped it from going into China, but they didn't stop it How the hell do you keep big crowds back? You can't.  So the police all quit.  They all quit.  They said, "We can't do it. " But you remember, they went out and you had one, then you had two, three, four, then you had five, six, seven.  All of a sudden they started pouring in.  They were getting off the buses.  They came from a different locale, and then you had a line of them and there was no social distancing unfortunately.  In fact, I was going to turn them in because Time to bring them home.  We've done our job, we've defeated everyone that we're supposed to defeat.  And now we are, we are policing, we are now policing.  That's what we're doing.  We're policing.  And that, as I said, no more respect for the police, but these are military people, and those are police, but we are now policing.  We're not fighting, we're policing.  And you know what? After all of these years … One other story, and I have to tell you.  I go to Walter Reed on Friday, and I grouping where you were doing nothing.  It's called promises made, promises kept.  Promises met.  The last time I came, I never did this before, I never ran, so they all said, "You never ran before.  You can't do this if you never ran," so whatever happened, it happened.  One by one, they started dropping out, right? And then I was left with one, Hillary Clinton, and that worked out very nicely.  "He cannot get to 270," remember? 270, electoral college.  "He cannot get to 270. " I went to Maine.  It's true, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans.  All Americans, race, color, creed, all Americans.  So in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China, once and for all.  We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, right here in Pennsylvania.  We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults or law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities.  We'd ban them.  We will defend the dignity of work and the going in. " They took over a chunk of the city, and when they heard we were going in it's like, "Well we give up, that's it. " That was the end of the Settle problem.  It's a terrible thing that's going on.  All in Democratic run, super liberal run, cities.  The red cities are doing great.  I think we're doing great all over, the Republican cities, we're fair.  We're not stupid.  How stupid these people are.  Did you see Chicago? 48 people shot, six died.  You know we're in Afghanistan, we're anybody wants to give up your seat, please just walk out.  Anybody want to leave? Because there really is.  There's no place better to have a rally, to have a good time, and to also, at the same time, be very serious than at a Trump rally, especially on Friday night in Mississippi.  We could have done this one on Monday night.  I said, "Let's do Friday. " Right? Yesterday, the Democrats voted to potentially nullify the votes of 63 million Americans, disgracing themselves and bringing shame upon the House of Representatives.  They've been plotting I'm very happy with that.  I'm very … Conan is incredible.  And Conan's coming to the White House in a few weeks.  But it is true.  Did you ever see a story disappear so fast? I mean, if Obama had that story, that thing would be going on for another seven months.  They'd be talking about his bravery.  Oh, so bravery.  But again, 142 judges he gave us.  Remember that.  How can you be a great … They always say the most important thing a president can do is federal judges. the border than any administration in history.  We are, as I said, building the wall faster than ever.  Faster and bigger than anyone thought possible.  They can't believe we're getting it done.  We'll have over 500 miles of wall built sometime next year.  500 miles.  Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are right now.  132 congressional Democrats have now signed up for Bernie Sanders takeover of healthcare that would strip 180 million Americans, many of them in this room, of their private coverage.  Remember president Obama? Remember, he said, he going to… I'll tell you how he's going to do.  He's probably not going to get the democratic nomination.  That's how he's going to do.  But Mini Mike, $411.  Then they had this idiot, Steyer.  We call him impeachment Steyer.  How did that work out, Steyer? He's another beauty.  The guy worked… He spent 210 million.  He got one-third of 1% in Iowa.  In New Hampshire he did much better.  He got less than 3%.  Guy's in there for like 250 million.  How did it work out, and dad's basement.  But Biden's plan is to appease domestic terrorists and my plan is to arrest domestic terrorists.  Joe Biden is a weak person.  He does whatever his left wing, puppet masters demand, you know that.  Look, Joe doesn't know what's going on, you know that.  I mean, let's be nice about it, okay.  And I'm being nice when I say it.  He'll never be able to protect your family, your loved ones or your community.  If Biden's elected his radical supporters won't just cause mayhem on the streets like you're big news tonight.  Let's turn on the television. " You know, we don't use wind.  We use actually, we actually use petroleum.  We use Petro.  Because we like it to be on like a lot.  We don't like to have lots of open gaps when the wind's not blowing.  We can't watch President Trump.  I go home.  I say, "First Lady, a great thing happened today.  I was honored, Nobel Peace Prize, nominated.  This is a big thing First Lady. " And then I went home two days later.  doing other things.  We ended the war on American energy.  The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth.  Number one in the world by far.  Saudi Arabia, Russia, but we're number one by far.  And if I get a couple of additional pipelines approved, which I will very quickly, instead of waiting 20 years to get them approved, it'll increase this by another 22% that will get them done quickly.  And they'll be environmentally friendly and all of that.  I believe in that.  gun.  Federal authorities recently discovered and rounded up more than 25 MS-13 gang members in Central Ohio.  And they will be sent to jail or frankly, I they hold them… I don't know that they can hold them.  They're going to be sent the hell back home.  Last year alone, ICE officers, who by the way are heroes.  These are brave people.  I don't want to do it.  You don't want to do it.  Let's see, you can do it.  You can do it.  You can do it.  Most rich guys, doesn't matter.  Rich guys call up, "Mr.  President, how are you sir? It's Richard. " Oh, good, Rich, hey Richard, loosen up.  This is a guy who used to, "Hey Don, how you doing? Let's go to dinner. " Now you're, "Sir, is everything… you're doing good, sir. " I said, "Richard, call me Donald like you always did, call me Donald.  Always call me Donald. " Okay, thank you Donald, thank you very much.  And then two minutes later, Mr President, it's been so great to… I lost all my friends.  "Sir, please don't say law and order.  That's too tough. " Now in the meantime you look at these streets, people crazy.  They say, "Say law and order but with safety. " I said, "Look, people get it.  It's just law and order, is that okay?" We want law and order.  They say, "Law and order and safety, sir.  Could you add the word safety? Because it's …" I said, "I don't want to add. " It's sort of obvious, right? We want law, we want order.  Biden is fueling the violence with his I don't know about that.  "The coronavirus. " And he doesn't know we did a great job, he has no clue.  He said, "I should have opened. " He goes, "I should have shut down one week earlier. " What he doesn't say is he did the worst job in the history of an epidemic or a pandemic with the swine flu.  It was a joke.  And what he did, his own man, that was in charge said recently, "We had no idea what the hell we were doing.  It was a total disaster. " head up the RNC! Who's that woman from Michigan to head up the RNC?" Thank you, Ronna.  Great job.  Setting all kinds of records, polling records, contribution records, everything.  We're doing everything so it's great.  And Tommy Hicks.  I want you to say hello, Tommy Hicks, who's a special friend.  And Haley.  Thank you, darling.  I retweeted you, Haley.  I retweeted you all over the place.  And all together we're building the world's most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society anywhere in the world.  It's a great thing. said to me, I just told him call me … He said, "President, I can't do it. " He said.  So he says, "President, you've been here now for, think of it, almost three years.  Can you believe we're here three years?" We, we, it's we.  And we have to promise them no more than 16 years.  Okay? No more.  No more.  16 more years.  I'm only kidding.  Now they'll go back.  See, he wants to run for more.  But he said, "President, could I ask you a question? It's weeks, four weeks, ten weeks.  Some are okay and they end up being terminally ill by the time they see the doctors, too long.  And I said, "Folks, I have the greatest idea. " All of my people, I say, "I have the greatest idea.  I'm so smart.  Here's what we're going to do.  We're going to send all those people that can't see a doctor, we just can't get them to see a doctor.  We're going to send them down the road to private doctors and we're going to pay the bill and years to come.  Because the fact is, we don't have to be in the Middle East other than we want to protect Israel.  We've been very good to Israel.  But other than that, we don't have to be in the Middle East.  We don't need… There was a time we needed desperately, we don't need that anymore.  We have more than they do, isn't that nice? After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally building our country.  America first.  It's America first.  To bring hope to our inner cities, I created was totally unified against building the wall.  You know, in the end they gave up, you know what happened? They realized it was a bad issue for them because these open borders.  I love when they fight for open borders because anybody that wants an open border coming in from rough areas, there's something wrong with those people.  So did you notice in the end it was like, "Just leave us alone, build your wall, just leave us alone. " I said, "Thank you very much. " And we will elect a Republican Congress to create a can tell you that.  You'd be… Instead of going up we were heading in the wrong direction.  We have the number one economy anywhere in the world.  And every time I meet a foreign leader, almost every time, they say, "Congratulations on what you've done with the economy. " I said, "I didn't do it.  I just set a certain path.  The people of the United States did it. " Number one anywhere in the world.  And they tried to do the recession thing.  You know, they tried the Russia thing.  That politically correct, you get her out.  You see that? I'll tell you, law enforcement is so great.  That particular guy wanted to be so politically correct.  We don't want to be politically correct.  I don't know who he was, he didn't do the greatest job, so they tried to frame innocent people in the ludicrous… It all started with the Russia witch hunt.  Then the inspector general shocking report proved that the Obama FBI obtained secret warrants to spy on my campaign based on a phony foreign dossier of debunk smears, paid for by crooked plunge right down to the bottom and then she dropped out.  She dropped out, but there's never been anything like this.  No major party has ever had a candidate that's so extreme in his views.  Again, he took the manifesto drawn up by Bernie and the super lips and that's what he's going by, including a massive increase in your taxes and a total assault on your second amendment.  On November 3rd, Michigan, you better vote for me.  I got you so many damn car plants.  I'll tell you what, I'll be so angry a beautiful phrase, "Made in the USA. " And very soon, India will have access to another world class American product, NBA basketball.  Wow, sounds good.  That sounds good.  Next week thousands of people will gather in Mumbai to watch the first ever NBA basketball game in India.  Am I invited, Mr.  Prime Minister? I may come.  Be careful.  I may come.  When it comes to expanding our commercial relationship, no issue is more important than energy security.  For the first time ever, the United States is the number one producer ending his evil reign of terror forever.  He's the father of the roadside bomb.  When you see our beautiful people walking around with no legs, they're walking, and trying to walk so hard, and they're really in rough shape he's the father of the… he loved the roadside bomb.  He thought it was a great thing.  Where is he now? Soleimani.  And I'll tell you what, you know who's happy about it? The people of Iran are happy and even the leaders of Iran, because the leaders of Iran were afraid of him.  Okay? it up four times.  But I just want to thank you all.  I just think it's going to be a tremendous four years.  We're going to have a tremendous four years.  Can you believe it? We only have a little more than a year to go, where it all started, right? The greatest political movement in the history of our country.  And even though we had fake witch hunts on our back and all the other things that we had to go through, we have taken this big beautiful ship, and it's being turned around We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed a wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industry, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism; and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world.  And, you haven't seen anything yet.  Proud citizens like you, helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to would have never come.  We will become the world's premier pharmacy, drug store, and medical manufacturer.  That's already started.  We're bringing it back.  We will keep America out of foolish, stupid, ridiculous foreign wars.  We will never hesitate to kill America's terrorist enemies.  When I took over, ISIS was all over the place, and I did something that I felt we should do.  And we have now obliterated, we have now captured 100% of the ISIS caliphate.  100, 100.  And like our depleted military when I took over, like our empty they hit us in any way, any form, written instructions already done, we're going to hit them 1000 times harder than we've ever hit them before.  So hopefully they will just come and we'll make a deal and they'll go back to being a rich country, let them go back and be rich but they cannot have a nuclear weapon.  They cannot.  That deal was so bad that Obama made.  $150 billion, they got $150 billion for nothing.  You know the deal is practically … If I didn't terminate it which I'm proud to have is that if for any reason, after five years we do leave, which we will, because I believe in that stuff.  Right? But you know what's going to happen to their industry.  They're all going to die and fold up.  Going to be very boring out there, very boring.  That's why I say at some point, every single one of them will be endorsing Donald Trump.  But crazy Bernie Sanders and the Washington Democrats, by the way, Bernie is surging.  Bernie is surging.  Bernie.  But the Democrats are outraged that we kill just before the election, but we're going to have a great third quarter.  We have unbelievable retail numbers, unbelievable numbers all over.  And this is that super V.  But next year is going to be one of the greatest years in the history of a country economically, unless the wrong person gets in and quadruples everybody's taxes in which case you will see a depression the likes of which you haven't seen.  And remember this, if Biden wins the violent mobs, you see these mobs all over the place.  They're Biden people.  They're Biden of it, $10,000.  It's one of the reasons the economy is doing so well.  And let the people down the road tell you about that, okay? Let them tell you about that.  And those tractors that I told you to buy, your tractors will be 60 years old if they have anything to do with it.  They will be 60 years old.  They will be old, tired, exhausted.  Your land will be exhausted.  You will be exhausted.  We've ended the war on American energy.  The United States is now the number weren't a good developer, you could forget about that wall.  I've got here, there, there.  These people fought me and we've started winning in court.  You know what? Speaking of court, we will soon have 182 federal judges, including Court of Appeals.  Nobody can believe it.  All because Barack Obama gave us 142 empty seats.  When you're a president, they always say, "I disagree.  I think the most important thing we can do is defense," right? But beyond defense, they always say the most important thing you can do is judges and justices Hispanic, but I've never quite figured it out, because he looks more like a wasp than I do.  So I haven't figured that one out.  But I'll tell you what.  There is nobody that loves his country more or Hispanic more than Steve Cortez, Steve.  Thank you Steve.  Nobody loves the Hispanics more.  Who do you like more, the country or the Hispanics? He says the country.  I don't know.  I may have to go for the Hispanics to be honest.  We got a lot of Hispanics.  We love our $1. 5 billion to manage, and he knows nothing, and he wasn't even employed.  He got thrown out of the armed services.  So give me a break.  It's a disgrace, what's happening.  There's a double… There's a thing happening with the media like nobody's ever seen before.  These people right here.  Because if that happened to a Republican, in particular.  If any of that stuff happened to me, it would be brutal.  But it happened to him.  They don't want to talk about it.  And how about the questions asked have allowed it to go on for 11 days, they should have called us immediately but do you remember that beautiful night? Nice evening, a little problem, there were a lot of buildings in the background that were burning down to the ground as reporters said, "No, this is a peaceful protest. " I don't know if it's your state but a couple of them they have … You're allowed to protest, so you can't go to church but you can rip the hell out of the streets, of Main Street, of 5th Avenue, break up the stores.  Burn I said, "I'm going to give you $12 billion for the year before, and I'm going to give you $16 billion for this year. " That was last year for this year.  So, they got, meaning you, a lot of you in this audience, got $12 billion, and you got 16, so you got $28 billion over that short period of time, and you were able to actually, in some cases, I guess thrive.  I told Sonny, "I want to take care of the small farmer too, not just the big monsters.  I want to take care They don't like God, religion, churches are close.  How about these states? They still have churches closed.  By the way, your governor hasn't been so great.  You know that, right? Are your churches still closed? They're still closed.  They're doing it for a reason.  By the way, November 4th, they'll announce, "We've decided to open up. " Okay? They're trying to make our numbers as bad as possible.  So, California's closed.  Pennsylvania's closed.  North Carolina's closed.  Michigan is closed.  That's another beauty right there, Michigan's closed.  Then they have as an example, many of you were here, look at all those beautiful red hats, keep America great, that's good.  But I never talked about, did you ever hear me prior to the election talk about Space Force? I never talked about it.  We did Space Force, but did we ever speak about it? No.  There were many things that we've done that we never spoke about, right? Right to Try, you know about Right to Try, right? They've been trying to get it for 44 years, Right to Try.  That's people that are very sick, few days ago with members of Congress and the media, and you looked at those so-called horrible concentration camps, they said, "Wow, these places a clean.  Wow.  They have air conditioning, they have water. " And you know, to be honest, it's not like they came and we want to take care of people.  We got to straighten out our immigration laws.  You know, in a very short period of time, if the Democrats would give us a few votes, we could solve the immigration problem and it would be so great.  It would be good.  People tell me that their wives, their husbands, all of a sudden, they've been running the 401s for years.  And they totally lost respect for let's say, the husband, totally lost respect.  Now they think he's a financial genius because he's up 74%.  She says, darling, I love you.  You are the most incredible, brilliant financial mind.  And you know what, if the Democrats get in, that's not going down by 50%, that's going down to nothing.  It's going to be worthless.  It's going to be worthless.  You'll have a or 70%.  On top of that, I instituted rebates where the rebates go toward price reductions and back to the customer instead of to a middleman.  So we will protect Medicare and we will protect Social Security and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.  America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to plant its beautiful American flag.  Do we love our American flag? Or Mars.  Above all, we will teach our children to love our country, to honor our history and be a tariff on washing machines and refrigerators, right? They just announced that they're building major refrigerator and washing machine plants in the United States.  You know why? You know why? Because they don't want to pay the 25% tariff.  So they're building them here.  That way they don't have to pay the tariff.  And just one final thing.  I know this doesn't matter, but I said leave it.  It's so inelegant to- I know this doesn't matter, but I said leave it.  It's so inelegant to talk about it, right? Right? Isn't it assistance. " He just said that the Democrats, who are corrupt, refuse to say that, and that's ultimately the only one that matters, the leaders of Ukraine, because they're the ones that know of this pressure, not some crooked ambassador that's a deep stater, or that's a Bushy, or that's a Clintonite, or that's a Barack Obama ambassador.  Okay? The ones that matter are the leadership of the country that we're talking about.  They refuse to say it because they're dishonest people.  There's only one way to stop the rabid partisan Democrats, Pennsylvania voters must show up  Incredible.  That was incredible.  Most of you remember that.  I'm looking.  We've got a lot of young ones, but we've got a lot of people that remember that.  A lot of people.  And by the way, we got the Olympics coming back or coming to Los Angeles.  Thank you.  Thank you President Trump.  Thank you President Trump.  Thank you very much.  Thank you President Trump.  Eight years.  Eight years, 2028 you know what? Unless I'm still president then, which is a distinct possibility, I won't be game.  I'd love to take the sucker down and move it right now to New Mexico.  And if I did that, they'd go crazy.  And they'd say, "Please sir, don't do that.  Please, please. " The same people that are saying, "We don't want a wall.  Why did you put up a wall?" And I knew that was going to happen.  I told my people that was going to happen.  But they're very happy with their wall.  Most of them won't say it.  They love it.  It stopped… it only like Roger Penske when you watch him, who's getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom, by the way, pretty soon.  He won 18 Indy 500s, 18, Roger Penske.  But it's like the way they change those tires, takes four seconds to change the whole damn thing.  I say, "How the hell do they do it?" That's the way these cops just reacted.  That was a record.  I think it was a … I've had good service, but I've never had anything like that.  I look up, the guy is already gone.  Ah, we love which is what we have in many cases right now.  The next president will be in my opinion, responsible for two, three, four, and maybe, maybe even five US Supreme Court Justices.  You better vote for me, you better vote for me or you're going to have the greatest depression you've ever seen.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.  Second amendment.  We will surprise medical billing require, it's already done.  I signed it.  Nobody can believe I did it.  Price transparency.  You  They're going up very fast, and the biggest percentage increase, makes me happy, are for blue-collar workers.  40 million.  Think of this, 40 million American families are now benefiting from the Republican child tax credit, each receiving an average of over $2,200 a year.  Now, America lost … This is hard to believe, because you think, "How could it possibly be true?" but this is what happened.  Probably, it's the number one reason I'm running.  America lost 60,000 factories under the previous administration, 60,000.  You wouldn't believe that it's possible, but I know  In other words, they said, and this was in the New York Times, I said the other night in Colorado.  I spent 70, mini Mike so far has spent almost $500 million dollars in order to get embarrassed by Pocahontas.  Pocahontas.  And she's mean, isn't she? Did you see that? Do you see the anger on her face? That nervous energy.  She's jumping up and down.  She's a mess.  But no, no, she's mean.  Right? Right? That face is just… "You want to get him?" She said, "I got him.  I inspirational coach, would you say Mike? And I'd like to have maybe one of you come up and just say a few words about Coach Brooks because he was very, very, he was really a big, he was a big heart on this team.  Please.  Say something.  So tell me one thing, one thing.  So I see those tears.  That means you think, you miss him and you love him.  Right? Was he actually a nice guy? Because he looked tough.  Mike was just saying he was brutal, but he was a good cages.  You'll hear it in one of the debates.  They'll say, "You built cages president. " I said, "No, I didn't build cages.  That was built by Obama. " Under the Trump administration, if you cross our border illegally, you are quickly apprehended and swiftly returned back home.  We are proudly defending the job safety and security of the American people, which is what I promised to do.  Nobody told me it was going to be this hard.  Nobody told me I was going to have the Democrats go totally crazy.  This was  The USMCA, you know when you have a hard time with that one, memory is a great thing.  I've always had a great memory for whatever reason, but memory is a great thing.  Having a great memory, but sometimes you take little clues.  USMCA.  Thank you, darling.  I love you, too.  Where is that person up? Look at that.  Wow.  What a good, strong voice.  But you know how you remember it? The song I just walked in on.  They're playing the song YMCA.  So, when you're having of the state, he loves this state and he is a smart cookie.  So good.  I love him on television.  He's no games.  Just looks and gives her the answer, but he's done a fantastic job.  The first person on my whole … You read about all these people.  This is the first guy and he's a great guy and he's a friend of mine, Corey Lewandowski.  Where is Corey? Great guy.  Tremendous guy.  Tremendous help.  Thank you, Corey.  Are you having a good time, Corey? Who's going to You should have done that. " He really just left office.  It's not that long ago, right? He's been there for years and years and now he should have done.  He's never going to do anything.  He's never going to do anything.  Guy is a stone cold loser.  Biden supported every globalist sellout of Ohio workers for over a half a century, including NAFTA, China's entry into the World Trade Organization, the disaster known as TPP and how about the Paris Climate Accord? That's another beauty.  I'll tell you, that was designed to hurt cities run by Democrats.  It's a disaster.  They don't know what the hell they're doing.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream.  Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, religion, color, and creed.  We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement.  That's what it is.  It's one of the greatest moments.  It's probably the greatest movement in history.  The 2016 election was probably, I mean you could say, the greatest election in the history  Remember Obama 28 times, "You can keep your doctor.  You can keep your doctor"? 28.  "You can also keep your plan.  You can keep it.  You can keep it. " 28 times he lied.  We should impeach him.  No, he got it on a lie.  He got it on a lie, but we've run it much better.  But essentially it's totally different because of individual mandate.  Because that really took the guts out of it and we're running it much better.  I had a choice, do we run it you, the American people.  They are trying to take your power away.  It will never ever happen.  With your help, and with your devotion, and your drive we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are going to keep on winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  Ladies and gentlemen of Pennsylvania, the best is yet to come.  Because together we still going through it.  Can you believe it? But a lot of people were unfairly treated by a bunch of treasonous, horrible people.  And they used the intelligence agencies of our country to try and steal an election and to try and do a coup.  Wouldn't you think? Who would ever think this country… But that's all you can say.  Some people would say, "Well, that's a conspiracy theory. " No, just take a look at the records.  For me, it's a very exciting thing because we found something that nobody would have thought possible. all of a sudden, they never talk about it.  But you know where I talk about it? Numbers.  The numbers are so good.  The numbers are so low.  We've never had numbers like this because that big portion of wall already built, you don't get through it.  You can't get through it.  You can climb Mount Everest, and you're going to have an awful hard time getting over that sucker.  I stood up to the lobbyists.  Everybody fought us, the Democrats, everyone.  I fought the special interests.  I kept every higher than ours.  If you look now, Spain is having a big blow up.  France is having a big blow up.  Now, we've done a great job, we haven't been given credit for it.  He always starts off, COVID-19.  That's all he knows.  COVID-19.  I said, "What about the economy? What about jobs? What about all the other things we have to do?" All he does, he thinks it's a weak spot, and actually in theory, if we're getting a fair shake from those people back there, it's actually what the job we've get 10 feet higher.  Remember that.  What happens if they fight us on the wall? The wall's going to get 10 feet higher but now Mexico and I get along great.  In fact they have 27,000 soldiers along our southern border protecting us from people coming to our country.  Can you imagine that? 27,000, and I did that so that we don't put tariffs on their products coming in, it was very simple.  I said you got to do it and the president's been great, he's a friend of mine, he's doing a very good it.  If they know, they perhaps don't know.  Under Obama, they knew immediately, okay.  Under us, but we are building weapons, all made in the USA.  The likes of which no country has ever seen before.  And hope to God, we never have to use them.  That's the key, I don't ever want to use them.  Remember, I was supposed to be a guy that was going to get us into a war in the first week.  Remember that? Where's the war? We're taking them out of Afghanistan.  We're almost finished a courthouse.  Can you believe it? We send in because they can't protect it.  So we sent, they did a very effective job.  We could take care of Portland in 45 minutes, 45 minutes.  If that governor, if that mayor would call and say, "Please send in the National Guard. " just like … Hey, we did it in Minneapolis.  Remember that? The place was going to burn down.  Another few days, we send in the National Guard, it was over within an hour.  They ought to get smart and that's what they know our great uniform.  Brilliant.  We love them, but you know what? We call it a peaceful protest now, because the only thing you're allowed to do in Pennsylvania, can't go to church, right? You can't meet, you can't congregate.  You can't look at each other.  You can't give your wife a kiss goodnight.  You've got to wear a mask.  You can't do anything.  They got you closed up.  "Don't go out to dinner, stay where you are. " Michigan, same thing like the governor.  Her husband went boating.  It said it was the greatest election we've ever had.  There's never been anything like it, never been such excitement.  Never been such excitement.  But you know what, if we don't win in 2020 everything that we've done, seriously though, everything that we've done, your 401's are going to crash, the whole thing, it's going to come down like a stack of cards.  So, in a certain way, let's say this is of equal importance, by that time we'll have values instilled, we'll have free enterprise instilled, people are working now.  We have the lowest food enforcement, Biden called law enforcement the enemy.  They're not the enemy.  They're our friends.  They're our great friends.  And without them, we wouldn't be here.  Here in Nevada rioters burned the city hall in Reno.  Does anybody know that? Do you know that? That's not a pleasant sight.  How did you allow that to happen? I would've thought you people would've gotten out there, like, "You're not going to burn our city hall. " And during the violent demonstrations in Las Vegas a 29- year-old police officer, you know about this, was deliberately never been this United because it's all a hoax and they understand it.  They also understand poll numbers, but I'm sure that had nothing to do with it.  But the impeachment hoax is about overturning your great 2016 vote, or in the alternative, trying to win the 2020 election.  That's not going to happen.  Yesterday, the Justice Department's Inspector General released a report detailing the outrageous, scandalous and unprecedented abuses of power.  Get them out.  Get her out.  Get her out.  Get her out.  See, these guys want to be so  We will pay for it. " And then you wonder why we have so many people trying to come through at the borders.  But we do a great job.  We're removing these criminal illegal aliens from our country by the thousands.  We're sending them home, and we're not letting them come back in.  We're being very tough.  Mexico is now giving us 27,000 soldiers at our border.  And Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, we signed a very important agreement with each.  When their people come into our country, they weren't taking them governor, Chris.  And now you get prosecuted if you do what they did, so it should be a lot different.  But we have done great.  This has been an incredible state for us.  It's a state where the people are great, just great people.  And we hear that there could be because you have crossovers in primaries, don't you? So I hear a lot of Republicans tomorrow will vote for the weakest candidate possible of the Democrats.  Does that make sense? You people wouldn't do that.  My only problem is I'm trying to four and a half years.  I haven't been to … I've had senators come in.  I've had congressmen come in.  "Sir, I've been doing this for 25 years and in 25 years I've only lost three races, sir. " I said, "But I've only been doing it for four years and I only won one race, but now I have to win two.  One race I won, but it was the president.  It was for president. " It was for president, but we did the largest tax cut in the history of our country.  see it.  No, they make this stuff up.  They make it up.  They make stuff.  It's called disinformation.  They give a phony deal out.  They did it two days ago with the military.  There's nobody that loves the military more than me.  I was very lucky though.  I had 15 incredible American Patriots that came by and they said, he never said that.  They were there.  They were there.  But they make up stories, horrible stories, many, many.  Hey, look, look at last time, the fake dirty you can't get the words out.  No it does.  That's what happens, right? When you can't get the words out, you get angry.  You get angry because you can't get the words.  That might happen to me someday.  Can you imagine if that happened to me? Man, would I be a bad guy.  I'd be the meanest man in history.  No, but Biden is very angry.  He gets angrier, and angrier, and angrier.  He's changed.  And then you have the Tom.  Yeah.  He said Tom Steyer.  Tom is Hunter?" I said, "That's his first name.  I have now made his first name Where's.  Where's Hunter?" Here's a guy, made no money, got thrown out of the military forces, I think the Navy, got thrown out, had no job, had no nothing, so, he went from that to making millions of dollars a year as soon as Sleepy Joe became Vice President.  He made millions of dollars a year.  Would anybody in this room do that for millions of … I would.  He made millions and millions of dollars a year.  Ukraine many people are running.  So, you know, it's so early.  I don't want to talk about their campaign.  Oh, did you hear Beto? Beto? Did you hear Beto? Beto.  Oh, that poor bastard.  Well, poor, pathetic guy.  He was pathetic.  Remember the arms a-flailing? Remember that? You know, he ran against Ted Cruz.  Ted Cruz won.  He spent almost 100 million dollars, and Ted Cruz… And I helped Ted, and we campaigned together, and it was good.  But I used to watch him.  Then when he came onto the highly respected, Senators Lindsey Graham and Rand Paul.  Great guys.  Warriors, they're warriors.  Hey, Lindsay and Rand.  That's not bad.  Can you imagine if you actually came from New Hampshire what it would be? Right? That's not bad, but they have been great.  All they do is they looked at everybody for the last couple of months and they said, "Read the transcripts please.  Read the transcripts. " But I want to thank you both very much.  Two great people, two great friends.  Man, look at all that television back there. commitment to selecting nominees who believe in applying the Constitution as written.  Both the White House and the Senate majority have a moral duty to fulfill the promises they made to the voters.  And that is exactly what we're going to do.  We said that if for any reason, we have a vacancy on the United States Supreme Court, we will fill that vacancy.  We're not going to say, and by the way, we have plenty of time.  There's a lot of time.  You're talking about January 20th.  So we will uphold equal for other money.  We are taking billions.  Remember what I said? We're not paying for it.  Because China devalued their currency and then they put a lot of money into the pot.  We're not paying for it.  And now they're starting to say, "I guess he was right. " And our trade deficit, as a result, has come, has really come substantially down.  It was just in the papers today.  The trade deficit has come down.  As a result of our actions, steel mills all across Ohio, you know this better than strong, tough patriots.  If we didn't have them.  They remove thousands and thousands of MS13 gang members a year and plenty of others.  Who else is going to do it? ICE officers arrested over 5, 000 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses, including robbery, rape, and even murder.  Many murders.  In Western Nevada, an illegal alien was charged with robbing and brutally executing four victims last year.  Right here in Las Vegas, three MS13 gang members abducted a man, tied him up with his shoelaces, shot him repeatedly, and hacked him to credit, and the dog will be coming very shortly, by the way, to the White House.  But they'll be endorsing us.  And you know, all of these crazy, like CNN with its bad ratings, there goes its red light, it just went off.  Their red light just went off.  See how it is? Well, it's hard.  Look, put yourself in their position.  They have it on, their covering, and now they know they're ready to get hit, so they turn it off.  I mean, I can't blame them.  Their red light just the worst year in the last 67 years.  Asia's doing poorly.  Europe is doing poorly.  The United States is doing great.  We're doing the best we've ever done.  The best we've ever done.  To lift up forgotten communities that need investment, and these are really communities that need it the most, we created Opportunity Zones.  We worked with Tim Scott, the great senator from South Carolina.  His idea.  He came in and saw me.  I said, "Let's give it a shot. " Nothing's worked over the years, but this has Amy McGrath compared my election, think of this one … It's so insulting.  I shouldn't say it.  Should I say it? Yeah, why not.  No, it's so insulting.  You know, you work so hard, you love your country so much, and they get up to say things.  She compared it to 9/11, a slander upon our nation.  She wants open borders.  She supports the impeachment hoax witch hunt like nobody.  She wants to get rid of it.  She wasn't too happy with me last year.  We came in, Andy, and ever happened.  Through our pledge to America's workers, we have secured commitments for nearly 14 million employment and training opportunities for American workers done through our great American companies.  We passed the biggest tax cuts and the biggest tax reforms in the history of our country.  We slashed a record number of job killing regulations, giving the average American household more than $3,000 every year and never in the history of our country, no matter how long the presidency, have regulations been cut to this extent.  Everyday, the Indian American community is helping to strengthen our nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of New Jersey, place I love, the best is yet to come.  Because together we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you.  New Jersey.  Thank you.  Thank you. Well, thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  It's a great honor to be in North Carolina. the Second Amendment rights of all Kentuckians.  And Mr.  President, I make a personal commitment to you as the next Attorney General, we are going to make sure that Kentucky is never a sanctuary state.  Good.  That's good.  Thank you, Daniel.  Thank you, Daniel.  Star.  A star is born.  A star is born.  Did you ever see that movie, A Star is Born? Thank you, Daniel.  Great.  You're next Secretary of State, Michael Adams.  Thanks, Michael.  Auditor, Mark Harmon.  Thank you, Mark.  Treasurer, Allison European Union which basically they run.  Together we've been rapidly fixing a half a century of disasters and Biden was there for every one of them.  Joe Biden supported NAFTA, China's entry into the World Trade.  He supported the Korean deal, the Korean deal was so bad, it was so bad.  This was a deal that was going to produce to South Korea done by Crooked Hillary Clinton, this was a deal that was going to produce 250,000 jobs.  She said, " This will be 250,000," and she was right, for South Korea.  It is going up.  So what's happening? You do know who's paying for the wall, don't you? Right.  Redemption from illegal aliens that are coming.  The redemption money is paying for the wall.  They're so sad to hear that because it's okay, finally, they go.  You have to understand an entire party is fighting.  They'll give me anything I want.  Our military would rebuilt it.  2. 2, it's really $2. 5 trillion over a period of three years.  They give me anything but not 25 cents for the wall.  They said, me.  And they took… And I didn't even ask.  We had 25 people that were witnesses that are on the record already that have said that never took place.  It never took place, what they said.  And yet pathetic Joe, and he's a pathetic human being to allow that to happen.  Here's the problem, he doesn't even know what happened, I don't think.  I think he has no idea, but he's a pathetic human being to let that happen, where they put an ad like that, where I'm standing over graves.  And then  You got to start talking about the economy and you got to start talking, your place, I mean this is … When you look at Pennsylvania, you're in a shutdown.  You have a governor that has you shut down we know the susceptible are old people, senior citizens, nursing homes.  People that are old, especially if they have heart problems or if they have diabetes.  We know that, we learned it, and we opened it up.  But the problem these shutdowns are causing much bigger problems.  You remember my original statement, right? The cure to us.  We're going to have peace through strength, and it's all made in the U. S. A.  Made in the U. S. A.  We'll end surprise medical billing, require price transparency.  I've already signed it into law.  Kicks in on January 1st.  It's going to cut your bills down to a level that you wouldn't believe.  That doesn't mean the drug companies and the hospital and corporations are happy with me.  But that's okay.  And further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs by 50%, 60% and see what they are doing between him and de Blasio.  That's a beauty.  What they've done to my beautiful city.  I love that city so much.  What they've done is so horrible.  The highest taxes in the land, crime all over the place.  They're like 300% up in crime.  We need Rudy to come out of retirement.  But we're defeating the China virus.  When Biden was vice president, he was a complete disaster on the swine flu, which was a much easier thing to handle.  Joe Biden's own chief of maybe you'll be late for work.  Maybe you'll be late for whatever.  I don't want to know everything.  Some things I don't want to know, but you have to just put it off.  You have to go vote.  It's so important.  Tomorrow is so, because beyond even the governorship, and it's so important.  Because again, your state is setting records.  In the history of your state, you've never done this well economically, job wise, unemployment, employment, factories moving in, new factories, open expansion of your car plants.  You've never done this to deduct that out.  When asked if there would be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration, Joe replied, "No, we would make sure that it's all eliminated. " All of a sudden, he gets the nomination.  He's been trying to get the nomination for decades.  He finally get, and that was prime time for him, which was never great.  He never got more than 1%.  We called it.  Remember, I called him his first nickname was 1% Joe.  Frankly, had Elizabeth Warren been loyal to her USA, the greatest equipment, the greatest planes and rockets and missiles and our nuclear.  I hate to even mention the word and hope to God we never have to use it, but we have the most powerful weapons in the history of the world.  And we did that over a very short period of time.  Weapons that are so powerful that we're the envy of the world, but I never want to use those weapons.  And hopefully we'll never have to.  You know the way you don't have to use them, is when you have country and build our future.  Indian Americans are pioneering groundbreaking medicines to save countless lives.  They're developing revolutionary technology that is changing the world and they're founding new businesses that provide jobs to thousands of our fellow citizens.  Prime Minister Modi, I look forward to working with you to make our nations even more prosperous than ever before.  And that's what's happening.  The economic miracles taking place today are just beginning.  Here in the United States, there has never been a better time to hire, invest, grow, and pursue your dreams.  Indian companies a politician, human trafficking, nobody talks about it, it sounded almost like an ancient crime, many, many years ago, hundreds of years, thousands of years ago, human trafficking, it's the worst now throughout the world because of the Internet, it's the worst it's ever been.  And the worst treated of all, children, but it's women, women, the Democrats want to do nothing about it.  Human trafficking is worse than it ever has been in the history of the world, not just… This is not a United States problem, this is all over the world.  Human trafficking, it's month alone.  Think of that.  Wages in your state, New Mexico, are growing at a rate of much more than 3% a year, which is unheard of 20 years ago.  And I used to say during the campaign, you go back, it's hard to believe, I'm here almost three years … Can you believe how time is flying? Can you believe it? I don't know about it me, but you look all much better than you did three years ago.  You're wealthier.  And even with the Me Too movement, we can't say this, but I'll dishonest people.  Comcast, terrible company.  Terrible people running that company.  And you know what, I had Celebrity Apprentice, I had the Apprentice on for 14 seasons, 14 seasons, and they used to come to my office and they would kiss my ass.  Please sign.  Please.  Please sign.  It's an interesting story.  They came and we signed, you know who signed me, Jeff Zucker.  It's one of the only things he's done good in broadcasting, but I signed and NBC, as you know, is owned by Comcast, but I signed and they Laden.  He opposed killing Soleimani.  He voted for the Iraq War disaster.  He backed the disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal.  And he cheered the rise of China as a very positive development for our country.  "Oh, it's really great. " If it were up to Sleepy Joe, bin Laden and Soleimani would be alive today, ISIS would be on a rampage, Iran would control the Middle East, and China would be the dominant power anywhere in the world.  And I want to tell you, if you go back a few months before this pandemic, we a lot of birds that are dead? Go under a windmill sometime.  She wants us to go back to the stone ages because she's got no sense, no credentials.  She's got a little charisma, not much, but she doesn't have a clue.  You know it.  But she's in charge of the environment.  No airplanes.  We can forget Boeing, I guess, come to think of it.  We talked about Boeing.  We could forget Boeing.  Let's cancel those brand new Air Force Ones.  Likewise, Representative Ilhan Omar is going to be very They gave us $500 million a year more.  They said, "But nobody has ever asked. " They gave us 500.  That's nothing compared to what they have to do.  That's okay.  That's okay.  They'll pay more.  But you know, they made a trade deal with the United States.  Hillary Clinton was in charge of the deal, right? She said it's going to produce 250,000 jobs, and she was right.  250,000.  You know who it was for? For South Korea, not for us, it was for South Korea.  So, we renegotiated desperate.  You don't have to pay for anything.  I joke, I said, "And everybody will get a free Rolls-Royce, every family gets a free Rolls-Royce, every family.  And the media said, "Donald Trump is exaggerating.  He knows that they're not getting a Rolls-Royce. " I'm sorry, don't put it.  Don't put that I said Free Rolls Royce.  But Bernie's desperate now, I watch him up there it's a sad situation.  But I think they're all sad when you get right down to it.  For instance, we're in this incredible state North Carolina, yourself fixed up.  We're going to pay the bill, right?" And you know what happened? And I said, "How brilliant is that?" They said, "Sir, we've been working on that for 48 years, but we've never been able to get it approved. " So I was very, very disillusioned, but you know what I'm good at? Getting things approved.  And we got it approved.  So we signed that 11 months ago, and what a difference that's made in terms of your lines and in terms of people's health.  People would wait online for weeks, and some that's the reason I won so easily in the Electoral College last time.  306, 306 to 223.  "He will not get to 270. " Remember? "He will not get to 270.  This will be a short evening for Donald Trump.  Oh, good riddance.  Thank God we got rid of him.  Oh, this is going to be great. " And then that problem happened.  "Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio. " Remember the one, she was crying? She was crying.  "Donald Trump has won Ohio. " But it believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we live by the words of our national motto, "In God we trust. " They'll always be there.  We'll never let up remove it.  Those words will always be there.  From Milwaukee to Monroe, from Bayfield to Green Bay, good luck this weekend.  And from West Bend to West Dallas, we stand on the shoulders of the most courageous men and women ever to walk on the face of the earth.  Our sheet of paper, you've heard this story, $1. 1 billion.  I said, "What's this for?" They said, "Sir, now that you've moved, we're going to build an embassy in Israel, in Jerusalem. " I say, "How much is it?" "1. 1 billion. " You got some friends of mine here, they're builders.  You don't spend 1. 1 billion on a one-story building.  I don't know what's going on.  So I said, "So, does it have to cost so much?" "Yes, sir.  We're buying land" So I called David Friedman.  He's our ambassador, he's one  We're also aggressively combating a problem that you have in North Carolina, problem that we have in almost all states, the opioid epidemic.  Last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in nearly 31 years.  At the center of the American drug crisis is the border crisis.  Criminal cartel smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across our souther border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl.  100,000 people a year die from what comes across our souther border, and we can get the Democrats to help us in sealing it even tighter. subsidizing their welfare states with your money.  I ask those wealthy nations now, I respectfully the other day said to the King of Saudi Arabia, "King, we're going to help you, but you've got to pay. " And he was great.  No, he was great.  He was great.  He said, "But nobody has ever asked before. " I said, "But I'm asking. " And billions of dollars will come in, and we're protecting a great ally.  We have a country that spends billions and billions of dollars in our country buying military and other things. soon.  Otherwise we're going in.  The Biden-Bernie manifesto pledges to implement these same policies nationwide.  Now you got to understand, Bernie's a radical lefty but not as bad as her but a radical left and I got a lot of Bernie voters.  I think 15% last time because they agree with me on trade.  They understand that many of these countries including our so-called allies are ripping us off, they're ripping us off on trade.  I agree with him on that.  The difference is I know how to do something about it, they I don't know where you are.  Where's our guy? Where is he? So, Al.  So, I walk in I said, hello.  He's been with me from the beginning.  He wasn't with … He liked Trump.  And I came in.  He said, sir, he's a great veteran.  He said, "Sir, I have cancer.  And sir, I went into the vet.  They were very, very late.  They had problems.  I'm not blaming them, but they gave me the right to go out and get a great cancer surgeon. " He had and we'll vote.  Democrats have never been farther outside of the mainstream.  They're going crazy folks, they're going crazy.  More than 130 Democrats in Congress have signed up for Bernie Sanders total government takeover of healthcare, isn't that nice? This is one of the great… It won't happen, he knows that.  The guy never passed the bill, he did nothing.  He's actually not even a Democrat, isn't he an independent? I don't know, he's running but… He missed his time.  Hey Bernie, let me save you a lot of time and effort, Bernie, you a day.  After years of building up foreign nations, we are finally building up our nation.  We are finally putting America first.  Our policy of never-ending war, regime change and nation-building is being replaced by the clear-eyed pursuit of American interests.  It is the job of our military to protect our security, not to be the policemen of the world.  Proving the wisdom of this approach, we recently secured a permanent ceasefire in Northern Syria without spilling one drop of American blood.  Not one drop.  Actually, I have to be honest.  One good question. " But we want to get that, we want to take care of it.  If you look at all of the problems that we have, you look at crime, even somebody brought it up today, we're doing a great job relative to other countries on the coronavirus.  You know how many names we have? Like 22 different names.  I call it the China virus.  We're doing a great job.  But if you want to really see a great job, take New York and some of these other Democrat run states out of it. I guess we didn't have the right candidates, right? But a woman who would call me constantly.  I'd say, "I don't want to talk to her.  She's giving me a headache. " "Sir, if you make one more trip, you're going to win Michigan. " I say, "All right," I make the trip, I go back home.  I get a call the next morning, "Sir, we need one more. " This went over and over and over, and we ended up winning the state of Michigan, and I said, "Who the hell was that woman that kept we would have had it, but we're going to end up actually with a better plan.  Sometimes through adversity things work out better.  We're going to end up with a better plan, you watch.  We'll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions also.  Always, yep, my word.  Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 51 years.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion.  Ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up to the moment of birth, strong people.  I'm not going to fight any of them, okay? Now, amazing people.  Thank you very much.  Under my administration, we're finally taking care of our own citizens first, including millions of illegal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes, lift up our society, and are entitled to a government that protects their families and protects their communities.  Every day, Democrats' open border policies are harming and killing innocent people.  You know what's happening, you know what's going on.  In this region alone last year, ICE officers, and they're patriots.  They're look at the stats and you look at how we've done compared to really much easier and much smaller countries, it's amazing.  If you took New York out of it, which was a disaster by Cuomo, if you took New York out of those numbers, we would have numbers that would be even better than they are.  I could read numbers that would be even much better, because a big percentage of the people that died in this country died because New York was incompetently run by Mayor de Blasio and Governor Cuomo.  By the way, just That means I'm probably the only politician in history.  They will tell you, these incredible women up here from North Carolina.  Stand up.  Will you, please? These are most incredible people.  Thank you.  Stand up.  Turn around for the cameras, so they can see how incredible you are.  Thank you.  Man, oh, man.  What a life.  But we took care of the VA with Veterans Choice.  You saw that.  What Obama was nothing.  It wasn't working, the MISSION Act.  That's amazing.  And accountability, where we liberty and we are committed to protecting innocent civilians from the threat of radical Islamic terrorism.  Thank you.  Both India and the United States also understand that to keep our communities safe, we must protect our borders.  Since taking office, my administration has launched a far-reaching effort to improve screening and vetting of applications for entry.  We are working hard to ensure that those who would threaten our security are denied admission into our country and we are enhancing our vetting efforts like- … country, and we are enhancing our vetting efforts like never before, not what I want to do is the following.  Under our rules and regulations, the cars are environmentally terrific, but they're safer and they're $3,500 less to buy, right? And the reason they're safer is because they could be a little bit heavier.  Makes sense, right? They could be a little bit heavier.  I mean, they make them now like paper mache.  Somebody touches them and the entire car collapses.  When somebody hits me, I want to be in as close to an army tank as possible.  No, they're made out of paper mache.  know why they didn't do it? They wouldn't approve it because they didn't want to be sued.  And they said, "No, this could be dangerous. " They said, "The people are terminally ill, they're going to die.  Let them use the experimental drugs.  Don't wait because they have another four or five years before they can come onto the market. " And it turned out we are having such unbelievable results.  And you know what else? Some of those drug companies are now like it.  That they fought me like crazy because it's really showing  No, it's a national story, how he wants everybody to not pay the price.  You're talking about not paying the price for rape, for murder, for other horrible crimes.  How stupid can you be? The charges against this alien include rape, aggravated indecent assault, unlawful contact with a minor, indecent exposure, and terroristic threats.  Other than that, he was a very nice person.  Philadelphia has defied ICE and released illegals charged with everything from assault, to kidnapping, to drug crimes, to sex crimes, to homicide murder.  Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos.  that during the campaign that we were going to produce numbers like this, the fakeness would have been hitting me.  He's exaggerating.  He's lying, Pinocchio, Pinocchio.  The press is very dishonest.  More than two million millennials have gotten jobs and their wages have grown by nearly 5% every year, which is a record.  A record number of Americans between the ages of 25 and 34 are now working, another record.  Under the Trump economy, the lowest paid earners are reaping the fastest gains of anybody.  You don't hear that because this is a 2018 midterm elections where, by the way, I didn't run.  We had a lot of people, a lot of people said, "Oh, he really took a little bit of a shellacking. " Not nearly as bad as others.  In fact, we gained seats in the Senate, but they never talk about that.  They don't talk about that.  We gained two seats.  Nobody talked about it.  But we didn't run.  And I had a lot of people that, "Sir, we'll never vote in 2018. " I said, "No, no vote, everybody vote.  They  And they didn't touch it.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep out people, keep them out of these horrible, horrible situations where they hurt our country, they hurt the people of our country, and we're also going to be staying out of the endless ridiculous foreign wars in countries that you've never even heard of.  We will build the most powerful missile and cyber defense.  We've already got it, pretty much.  And we will maintain peace through strength.  We will end surprise medical billing, require the biggest To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most.  These are the communities that really have suffered.  We created, with the help of a great gentleman from the state of South Carolina, You know who I'm talking about? Tim Scott, right? Senator Tim Scott, he's an incredible guy.  He really is.  He came to my office and he had this idea that he's wanted to do for a long time.  Senator Tim Scott, opportunity zones, and jobs and investment are now pouring into nearly 170 newly designated opportunity zones right here in New Jersey, justice and her courageous battle against cancer inspire all Americans.  You may agree.  You may not disagree with her, but she was an inspiration to a tremendous number of people.  I say, all Americans Justice Ginsburg's close relationship with a friend of ours, a friend of mine, Justice Scalia, is also a powerful reminder that we can disagree on fundamental issues while treating each other with decency, dignity, and respect.  Our thoughts and prayers are with her family.  Thank you very much.  So Article II of our constitution says the president shall nominate justices killing each other for so many, they're going to stop killing.  I said, fellas, let's get together.  They'd been doing it for hundreds of years, frankly, under different names.  I said, that's great.  And with Israel, UAE and Bahrain signed a deal with Israel.  Everybody said it couldn't be done.  I said, "All right, First Lady, that's the first story on NBC, but don't worry.  That's a big story.  The floods are big.  I see it. " And then there was a second story about something.  And then their third okay? The states should all be open.  But I heard about Big 10 football, and because of this ad, I said, "Hey, wait a minute.  I have an idea. " It was a fake ad, just like the ad on the grave sites, and that allows me to say that this man is a gross incompetent.  He has no idea.  Because now, see, I would never talk like that, but when I saw that horrible thing, and nobody's done more for the military than I have, when I saw that horrible ad, "An anonymous source has Incredible job.  He does such a great job.  All over, whenever there's a problem you see Samaritan's Purse and Franklin and his people.  We love the people of this state and we will never ever leave your side.  North Carolina will truly recover so fast.  I know you people so well.  Let's not even talk about it.  Let's not even talk about it.  We're here tonight to discuss the extraordinary progress we're making as a nation and how to ensure this amazing resurgence keeps on going and going strong.  In just phone call that was perfect, this stuff would have all been done.  Would have all been done, truly.  It would have all been done.  Yet, with all of this stuff, the fake Russia witch hunt, the fake Ukraine.  How about that? Did anybody read the transcript of that call? It was a perfect call.  "Hey, congratulations.  Good luck. " It was like a perfect call.  Now they'll take it back and they'll say, "Well, I don't know. " This was a per … In history, there's never been anything like this.  It ago, but maybe not, but they will.  They'll learn it again.  This time it'll go even faster.  For decades, Washington politicians like Biden allowed an endless supply of illegal foreign labor to decimate American jobs and wages.  Also, the crime was incredible what happened.  They allowed criminal gangs to menace, maim and terrorize innocent citizens.  They came in.  They would maim and terrorize, and we have done something with our border patrol.  And by the way, ICE, ICE is great.  ICE has taken out thousands and thousands of MS-13, and you  Richard, loosen up please.  You don't have to call me Mr.  Parson. " I said, "Just call me Donald.  It's okay. " "Thank you Donald.  I really appreciate it. " And you hear the guy can't breathe.  He's having a hard time breathing.  He's very nervous.  Then at the end of the phone, he goes, "Mr.  President again, thank you so much for the job you do," and he hangs up.  I said, how can you be friends with … ? It just doesn't work.  It's like, I've lost bigger and better than ever before.  Before the end of the year, we will have a safe and effective vaccine and we will defeat the China virus.  I have a feeling … By the way, I think the vaccine is going to come very soon, going to come very soon.  With it or without it, we're rounding the turn.  You see what's happening.  You see the numbers are plunging.  You see how good we're doing relative to other countries and other parts of the world, but the fake news doesn't like saying that.  nice to me.  It was like they were love fests, but I don't want anything to do with him.  They were love fests.  What a thought.  He's weak.  He's a weak person, but they're all weak.  But let me just tell you something.  We need honesty with our media.  We need honesty, because the New York Times, the Washington Post … And by the way, I don't know, you probably read it.  We threw them out at the White House.  We don't show them anymore.  If somebody wants to could you keep it away from a football game?" Now they're saying, "Could you possibly do it during the football game?" We have some free time.  But during violent demonstrations in Las Vegas, a 29-year-old police officer, you know this very well, was deliberately shot in the head, leaving the young, brave officer paralyzed, yet, Sleepy Joe Biden and his supporters continue their dangerous war on the police.  They're putting the lives of our brave officers directly in harm's way.  At his convention, he never even mentioned the words, "law and order", never mentioned them once.  fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration that puts American workers first.  We will revitalize our cities, and we will build gleaming new roads, bridges, tunnels, and airports all across our land.  We will enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA.  It's so beautiful, so beautiful.  Made in the USA.  That's happening too.  We have so many plants coming into Michigan and so many other states.  We have car plants coming in would have never come if I wasn't President, was a quick thing.  The doctor, he got me in a lot of trouble.  He's a great doctor.  I said, "No more surprise visits to the hospital where we do a little work because we have some time. " So now the same visit they started yesterday because some joker from the New York Times who's a third grade reporter writes a book and he said, "The vice president was prepared to take over the reins because they thought the president was going to go," I guess, under anesthesia.  Do they still call it…? In the today, there's another credible thing happening.  Pfizer, great company, announced that it expects to have the results of its vaccine trials in a matter of weeks, very shortly.  Incredible.  Under Operation Warp Speed, we remain on track to produce a safe and effective vaccine, in that record time that we talked about.  This would have been years later.  It'll be delivered before, in my opinion, before the end of the year, but it really might even be delivered before the end of October.  How do you like that? Wouldn't that be nice? That would front row.  Put up your hand, John.  Look at that guy.  He's great.  You've got my vote, John.  Hey, boilermakers, thank you.  What a job you do.  You're the heart of this country.  You really are.  Thank you very much.  That's a great endorsement.  That's a great endorsement.  Joe Biden spent the last 47 years shipping Pennsylvania jobs to China and foreign nations.  And I've spent the last four years bringing them back home and we're bringing them back home.  Bringing a lot of things back That means, like I said it last night, that means around 700 or 800 years ago, somewhere, there was a little bit of a relationship going and that's okay.  Seven, 800 years ago, maybe.  What a phony she is.  It's terrible.  Now, we're going to pick a great woman, any one of the five that I told you, but any one of the women that we had they're all great people, great scholars, great, brilliant people.  A lot of people.  00 on Saturday at the White House.  You see, we have tremendous Republican Bill Clinton in the back of the airplane with the Attorney General, where they may have made her an offer that you're going to go to the Supreme Court.  Or they may have said, "You're going to to stay Attorney General, but help.  Help. " They may have said that.  Do you think they would have said that? No.  Nothing like that.  But do you remember? They talked about golf and grandchildren, right? 45 minutes.  I like golf.  45 minutes.  I like golf and I love my grandchildren.  I don't think Rush? Barack Hussein Obama.  Rush is great.  He's doing well too.  He's great.  He's a tough guy.  We love Rush.  We love you Rush.  He watches every one of these rallies.  You know, he supported me when I came down with our great first lady, I came down the escalator.  I made a speech.  I didn't even have a speech writer, I had to wing it.  The winging speeches are the best ones like last night.  But Rush said, "I like that guy.  I'd never heard that  You know what that is? So, we have the greatest doctors, the greatest technicians, the greatest labs in the world, and we'll have a drug that's looking good, but it's going to take five more years, and by the way, we've brought the timing way down from 12 years to half of that, but it takes years to get it approved.  You have people that are terminally ill.  If they have money, they go to Asia, they go to Europe, they go all over the world looking for help.  If they don't have money, they go States.  Illegal immigration costs Nevada taxpayers, think of it, more than $1. 6 billion every year, over $1,500 per household.  For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild every city, all of these distressed areas in the United States, throughout our country.  The money spend, it's not even thinkable and don't forget when we say come, like in California the clown, he says, "come, we'll give you free healthcare. " People that weren't even thinking about coming.  That's why we have caravans of people that we're turning back. all, nobody else ever had tens of billions of dollars pouring in from China because it's always been the other way around.  China has taken advantage of our country for decades, decades.  And I guarantee you one thing, none of these Democrats, whether it's Pocahontas or Sleepy Joe, none of them would be able to do a thing about it, and nobody would ever think of helping the farmers who have been targeted by China.  China made $500 billion over the last number of years, on a yearly basis, they steal our intellectual property.  So many "We like drones. " Well, drones don't keep people out.  Drones are wonderful.  They fly around, take pictures.  We're going to give you a drone.  No good.  So we now have built over 100 miles of wall.  And when we have that wall built, you have to see what happens to the illegal aliens that don't come in.  I say they can't come in.  They don't come in.  So we up to over a hundred, substantially more than a hundred miles of wall, and we'll have close to 500 miles of  It's all good stuff.  And we're energy independent.  So many things have happened.  If you add four or $5,000, so you're talking about by $11,000, you got to add the energy.  I said to my people, "Put the energy in. " "Well, I don't know if it's right. " I said, "Do me a favor, just put it in. " In my first three years, we lifted 6. 6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any president in American history.  We built the greatest economy in the history of the agenda is made in China.  My agenda is made in America.  After years of building up other nations, we are finally building up our nation and our jobs, and we're taking care of our people.  Last night, I got great reviews of the speech and all, but some of the fakers back there, they said, "Well, it was a little long.  He shouldn't have used the White House. " Oh really? Tell me.  But they said it was a little… Then one person, I think it was Chris Wallace.  Nice guy.  He's actually You picked up over 180,000 jobs, North Carolina.  Think of that, and you have your lowest unemployment rate.  You have a lot of good things, but let's not talk too much about North Carolina.  Let's win this election nationwide.  You remember North Carolina, that was going to be the Clinton firewall.  She spent a fortune here, and I kept coming in and coming out.  They call it, earned media.  I earned it.  I kept coming in and coming out, and every time I left they said, "I don't think we'll lose in at Holloman Air Force Base, White Sands Missile Range, Kirkland Air Force Base and many other vital New Mexico military installations that are going up as we speak.  That's also jobs, but more importantly than even jobs, incredible.  What you've done for the military, New Mexico, is incredible and we've remembered, but we're pouring a lot of money into New Mexico and that means a lot of good things.  And we're investing in our nation's nuclear security, including right here in New Mexico and Sandia National Laboratories and Los Alamos National Laboratory.  To protect American security, record number of 217 federal judges who will interpret the constitution as written.  And we have appointed two great new Supreme court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and we recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  We have invested $2. 2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, including more than $130 million for Nellis air force base right here.  And we just created the sixth branch of the American armed forces, the Space Force, 72 years, 72 years.  The air force did Right to Try medicine.  You know all about that.  We did things that I didn't even talk about it, we did.  We did a thing called the Space Force.  You never heard me talking about.  I'm the only candidate that gave you more than I promised in the campaign.  It's true.  I'm the only one ever, maybe ever.  Or we'll head to the polls and together we'll stop the left and win four more years in the White House.  We're joined today by some incredible people, friends of mine, great, I went to the legal legals here and I said, "They're going to put up $5 million, give it to the United States. " "Sir. ,You can't do that.  There's no provision. " I said, "How the hell can there be no provision.  We're making the deal possible.  Why can't they give us $5 billion dollars?" That's b, that's a lot of money.  Now, watch the crazy Democrats.  They'll go, "They should have gotten more money. " It's never been done before.  They should have, no matter what you do.  They should have  "One more speech, sir, you're going to win Michigan. " I said, "All right.  Ron, I'm coming in one more time, but that's it. " I said, "That woman is the most aggressive person I've ever met. " She said, "I'm telling you, sir, one more speech. " I said, "All right, I'll do it one more time, but that's it. " About a day after I got back, I said, "I just got back from Michigan.  It was wonderful. " I get a call from Ronna McDaniel, and she goes, "Sir, could you come in tomorrow thrown out of the Navy and then he became a genius on Wall Street in about two days.  By the way, whatever happened to Hunter.  Where the hell is he? Where's Hunter? Hey fellows, I have an idea for a new t-shirt.  I love the cops, but let's do another t-shirt.  Where's Hunter? Where is he? Here's Hunter, being examined by sleepy eyes Chuck Todd or some of these people.  Hunter, it's so great that you're here, sir.  Hunter, I know they're giving you approximately $168,000 a month.  I hear they paid you will make America wealthy again, we're going to have to say, "We have made America wealthy again. " So here's one, we will make America strong again.  No, no, we're going to have to change this, we have made America strong again.  And just so you know, we have made America great again.  Give up MAGA.  How do you give up MAGA? Make America great again, but we've done that.  Can you imagine if keep America great didn't work? I had the greatest phrase probably in the history of politics in this country.  Look that the theft of American jobs and American wealth is over.  Yet today, the Wall Street Journal editorial board and some others continue to publish foolish articles that demonstrate that they understand nothing about trade or business.  Nothing.  They advocate only economic surrender.  They actually say, "Go to China, take off the tariffs, make a deal. " I lose all the cards we take off the tariffs.  We don't have any cards.  Think of it.  They say "Go to Europe. ".  By the way, the European union is worse than China, just great job.  Country has a lot of respect.  Speaking about warriors, we're also joined tonight by some great, great congressmen who are warriors and they represent Ohio so well and they love you and they love our country.  Representative Bob Latta.  Thank you, Bob.  Great job.  They like you, Bob.  That's very good.  Good job, Bob.  Thank you very much.  Congressman Warren Davidson.  You know Warren.  Thank you, Warren.  Great job, Warren.  Congressman Mike Turner.  A great lawyer, actually.  Thank you, Mike.  Great movement like this.  Never.  Our movement is built on love, and it is, and we love our family.  We love our faith.  We love our flag, and we love our freedom, and that's what it's about.  And add to that the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our- … the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our country.  Together we are all united by one fundamental principal.  A nation's first duty must always be to its own citizens, it's own.  We've got to take care of great friend in the White House and I can tell you, you have never had a better friend as president that President Donald Trump.  That I can tell you.  The prime minister knows that.  On this day, I'm happy to report that the relationship between the United States and India is stronger than ever before.  The ties between our two nations are grounded in our common values and our shared commitment to democracy.  We are free nations with great faith and a fierce devotion to our national independence.  We are governed by the rule country, not just Iowa.  On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly betrayed the American people than on immigration.  Illegal immigration costs our nation hundreds of billions of dollars, drains public services, overcrowds our schools and hospitals, and threatens innocent American lives at a number that you wouldn't even believe.  But we have got it closed up, but we're getting your people in.  You have people that have worked for you for a long time, don't you? I know who the people that you have, and they are hard workers.  We have a lot of listen to the rest of this.  But if you have a family that you love and you have a small business or farm or whatever, they were being put out of business.  They'd have to go and borrow the money to pay the estate tax, the death tax.  And it was a terrible thing.  We got rid of it, so now you can leave your farm, your small business to your family.  And just hope they remember you every once in a while.  It's always a difficult situation, but it was.  It was a lot of dishonest people.  I think the media, the fake news is the most dishonest group of people I've ever seen anywhere in my entire life.  And that includes, by the way, leaders of foreign countries that aren't our friends, okay? That's a big statement.  They really are bad news.  But here we are, and this is really amazing.  The governor tried to stop us, he couldn't, but think of this, he's in control of millions of votes.  Here's a guy calling venues, telling them not to have the rally, calling different venues, have something to do with it?" Yeah, but you know, that's the way it is.  As long as we know, that's all that matters.  I saved a big war.  I saved a couple of them.  But under my administration, we will never make excuses for America's enemies, we will never hesitate in defending American lives, and we will never stop working to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, never.  And nobody's done it like we've done it.  And it's we, it's we.  It's not me, it's we.  It's a whole movement.  There has,  I really mean that.  They'll say, "Oh, it's horrible.  He's against free speech. " No, no, we're not.  We're not against free speech.  But I'm running for reelection to bring back the tremendous prosperity that we enjoyed before the plague came in, and it's happening very fast.  And I'm running for your state.  I love this state.  You know, I put a lot of money in this state and it's been a great investment.  And we want to keep this state strong.  Not for that reason, by the way, for party.  You would think after the way they treated him, they called him every name, Pocahontas destroyed him, she didn't do good against me, but boy did she do good against Mini Mike.  I figured he'd be calling and saying, "Listen, I want to become a Republican. " We've done great for the economy, you'd think.  But he always wanted to run for president, and he tried before, I guess, but he tried and it was a bad experience.  And you would think he would have joined our party.  But instead he's trying to buy Rudy.  Rudy Giuliani.  Man, he did a job in the first year.  I've never seen anything like it.  New York was crime infested.  We had problems.  We had problems like nobody would believe.  Rudy went in there and he did the job and people loved him for it.  It wasn't like, "Oh gee, he's a horrible person. " People loved Rudy Giuliani.  He was a great, great mayor.  So thank you, Rudy, for being here.  The first person that I put on on the campaign, he was driving me shouting at bystanders with unhinged manic rage.  Right? You see it.  It's crazy.  It's crazy.  You ought to see last night in Washington.  It was a disgrace.  It was a disgrace that these people are representing the United States of America.  It was a disgrace.  Protesters.  You know what I say? Protest is your ass.  I don't talk about my ass.  They're not protestors.  Those aren't … Those are anarchists.  They're agitators.  They're rioters.  They're looters.  They're not … You know you say that " And then they announce there was no bias.  Now you know what we're doing, and it's not easy, and somebody said a regular president… I don't want to use the word normal because that's not a nice normal refer… A regular president would have been under a table, thumb in the mouth saying, "Take me home mommy, this is too tough for me. " It's true.  True, they know.  And while it was tough on my family, I have to say, very unfair to my family, very tough on my family.  I have a great an eight year old child.  Now they're trying to free them on bail.  They're putting up the money to get them out by this plan to appease the domestic terrorist.  And that's what it is.  My plan is to arrest the domestic terrorist, and that's what we're doing for many people in jail.  Many people.  Remember what I told you about the monuments? This is remembrance.  Isn't it beautiful? We don't see that anymore.  Have you seen a monument knocked down recently? No, we don't see it anymore.  I don't know. fairness with no president, they paid us nothing.  They pay us now tens of billions of dollars.  I took a small portion of it, I added it up, 16 and 12, 28, and I said, $28 billion is going to the farmers.  Did everybody get that money, right? You had a very good year, the farmers have had a very good year.  Last week, China ordered and you have to understand, I view China differently now than I did six months ago, we made a great trade deal but I view it differently because I don't people can't even believe it.  Not 500 million.  That's a lot.  If you lost 500 million, that's a lot.  I thought that was another typo.  $500 billion they would take a year from us.  We rebuilt China.  And I give them a lot of credit, by the way, I give China.  What I don't give credit to is Obama and past administrations beyond Obama, I don't give them credit because they let it happen.  They should have never let it happen.  But now we're taking in tens of billions, and great group of Republican people, but more importantly, it's a great group of winners.  They have been so great, so they worked so hard and I just want to thank you all for being here tonight.  Thank you.  Thank you Ron.  A great guy.  Thanks to strong Republican leadership like Ron, like all of them that you just saw, America is winning again.  America is respected again.  And America is thriving again like never before.  We're doing great.  We're the envy of the world.  And under my administration, we now not only to do new things, which we will, and you know statutorily and we had all sorts of artificial witch hunts over our head.  Can you imagine if we didn't have to go through that hoax? I don't know that we would've done any better to be honest with you.  I think we've done more in two and a half years than any president ever< first two and a half years.  But could you imagine what it could have been if we didn't have the witch hunt? You said it.  He said it.  I  Anytime you see an ad from a drug company, just remember one thing, your drug prices are coming down.  That's what it means.  That's what it means.  We will strongly protect Medicare and social security and we will always protect patients.  We will protect every single patient.  America will land, by the way, the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  You know, NASA was an absolute disaster, grass was growing through the fairways too.  They had fairways, that's for many years to come, whether it's on life or the second amendment or so many other things, they set the whole course of the country.  Very important position, the most important.  Joe Biden has refused to list the names of his potential justices because he knows they're too extreme to withstand any form of public review.  If Joe Biden and the Democrats take power, they will pack the Supreme Court with far left radicals who will unilaterally transform American society far beyond recognition.  They will mutilate the largest figure the constitution and oppose a socialist particular from a man who happens to be your senator right now, and we need him to keep going, because he has been fantastic.  And, I believe he's here tonight.  I just came in.  The weather wasn't so great to be traveling today, and they said, "Maybe we could skip North Carolina today, sir. " So, I said, "No, thank you. " I said, "No, thank you. " Can you imagine? And, by the way, I have to say, we have a big crowd in here, right? You haven't seen outside.  Thousands and thousands of people the new deal, they get lawyers.  If they come in to our country illegally, we supply them with legal advice.  You believe it lawyers? This is what we need, is more lawyers.  This state lost 43% of all manufacturing jobs after the twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the World Trade Organization.  That's courtesy of Biden and his friends.  Earlier this year, I kept my promise to North Carolina when we ended the NAFTA nightmare and we signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law, it's been incredible.  Everyone said, "Impossible. " "Well, does that mean every … " That means everybody that's in prisons should be entitled to a vote, right? So they actually said, "Well, what about the Boston bomber? Should he entitled?" And Bernie goes, "Yeah, he should be entitled. " Bernie is crazy.  But the fact is, that we got a lot of Bernie votes four years ago, because Bernie's right about one thing, trade.  Because all of these countries, friend and foe, they ripoff the United States.  We have made so many great trade deals, and you see it, USMCA.  We got rid said, "I was born for this. " And that's when it all came down.  As soon as I heard that, anybody said they were born for this, that doesn't play well.  But he's in charge of the Second Amendment.  And you won't have a Second Amendment.  Frankly, you wouldn't have a Second Amendment if I didn't get elected, it would have been obliterated.  It would have been torn up.  Maybe it would have been totally knocked out.  But there's tremendous pressure on your Second Amendment.  As long as I'm here, you'll always we did it just the right way.  We have to be calm.  We don't want to be crazed lunatics.  We have to lead.  When Hitler was bombing, I don't know if you know this, when Hitler was bombing London, Churchill, great leader, would oftentimes go to a roof in London and speak, and he always spoke with calmness.  He said, "We have to show calmness. " No, we did it the right way and we've done a job like nobody.  All of those great generals, all of those great admirals, our great vice president,  Under President Barack Hussein Obama, for eight years it was $975, so eight years, eight years, 450, 975 under your favorite President, and when you include the tax cuts, the regulation cuts that nobody's ever cut taxes like this.  Nobody's ever cut regulations.  That's why all these jobs are being built.  Under President Trump, for three years, the number is almost $10,000, and that's three years, and it's going up.  It's going up very substantial.  That's a big difference.  New business applications in New Jersey have just soared to a record high, and pursue sanctuary cities and hold them accountable for the thousands of lives they have shattered, they've shattered these lives.  Thank you very much Thom.  Every nation has the right to establish and enforce immigration rules in it's national interest, it's very simple, isn't it? It's common sense, it's so simple and the voters understand that.  We expect that those who seek to join our society will obey our laws, revere our constitution, cherish our history, support themselves financially, and embrace our American values and love our American flag.  We believe in an immigration system based on wake up because if they get in, you know who's in charge? You know who's in charge of the program? Cory Booker, Cory Booker.  Cory Booker.  So, I think the suburban women and suburban men and husbands and wives and everybody, you better get smart because you're not going to have your dream very much longer if they get in.  If I get in, you've got it.  You've also got your second amendment if I get it.  In 2018, we expanded the Senate majority.  Remember, they said, first of all, I wasn't running.  know what I mean by that, and we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.  And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust.  And I don't know if you saw it, but during the Democrat National Convention and Caucus, they took twice, I thought I was sort of, maybe they made a mistake, you saw that, they took the word God out of the Pledge of Allegiance twice.  And then they said, "Oh, well maybe it was a they want, they could be sadistic.  They could be so many other things.  They could steal, they could rob.  You couldn't do anything, you'd keep them.  You couldn't do a thing.  We got accountability.  Now you look at him, you say, "Get the hell out of here.  You're fired, you're fired.  Now you can fire.  They've let go of more than 8,000 bad people.  We have reduced opioid deaths for the first time, and very substantially, in 30 years.  And we are modernizing critical vaccines.  We're doing a it.  I never hear anything.  Can you imagine if I didn't.  I give it away to … You can only give it, you can't keep it.  You can't actually make a gift.  You can give it to your different agencies.  So I can give it to health, I can give it to transportation, I can give it to military, but I give it away all the time.  Now, and if I ever did … But it's 450.  If somebody stays from, let's say, a middle East country in one of my hotels have a fantastic guy running in that one, too, Republican Greg Murphy.  It looks like he's in good shape, but you've got to get it out.  So, I want to introduce Thom Tillis, and I want to introduce Greg Murphy.  I want to thank you both.  Thank you.  Thank you, Thom, and thank you, Greg.  So, Greg Murphy is looking to, like Dan, cut your taxes, defend your Second Amendment, support our policies, really, really support our military and our veterans.  We have rebuilt our military.  Greg Murphy, come on up for trying to impeach, even though he did nothing wrong. " By the way, did you see, I did nothing wrong.  They don't even know what in the hell is going on.  In fact, it's so weak, she doesn't want to put in the articles, it's so weak.  They're so pathetic.  They're so pathetic.  So they want us to call them.  Now, Schiff is a big leaker.  He leaks to crazy CNN.  See with the little red light on over there.  Not too many people are watching CNN.  But he leaks. And they've been good.  They've been great.  They take them back.  "How many would you like us to take? We'll take as many as you want. " And here's the big thing.  Ready? You ready? Today in the newspapers in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals we won't the big big beautiful lawsuit when they were all suing us.  The wall is being built.  We built it.  We built already a tremendous amount.  But we're releasing four million dollars of military construction funds to build the biggest section of the wall.   But you wouldn't have bought those hats.  You know why? You wouldn't have the money to buy him.  Okay? Now you can buy them, it doesn't mean a damn thing.  So let's do it real fast.  The poll, right? Make America great again, or keep America great, right? I don't have to go through the whole deal.  We're going to do it quick.  We're going to do it quickly.  Ready? Who likes make America great again? Whoa.  They're very loyal people in Wisconsin.  Who likes keep America great? All right. left.  They had problems, good problems, bad problems, families where they don't have the money.  They didn't get a high school diploma.  They've achieved the lowest unemployment rate ever recorded in the history of the United States.  Those are important groups of people.  Half a million more Hispanic Americans now own a home.  Now, Hispanic have done so good.  And by the way, you know who understands the border, because we are building that wall like crazy.  Remember, they also said, "if you build the wall you'll lose the Hispanic vote. " In everything we do, we're putting America first, unlike other administrations, and not just Obama and Biden.  This has gone on for many years.  We put America first, and that's what we're doing.  And you know what? Other countries, for the first time in decades, respect us again.  Remember that.  They respect us again.  You know all about data, 28 countries.  We had six countries that were current, and the amount of current is too low, okay? Six countries.  I went in, and I said, "You got to pay.  Sorry, you're That's like one of many, many things.  We passed VA choice and VA accountability.  We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, they were after him for a year.  We took out the world's number one terrorist and the mass murderer of American troops and many others.  Qasem Soleimani is gone.  I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal, one of the great disasters.  And by the way, it's practically expired.  The crazy deal that Obama made practically expired.  And his chief negotiator, he never left.  " I two.  Two for two, so we have 16, we have 20, we have 24, and you know what's very interesting though? They were really people out there think I'm not leaving, can you believe it? Hey, maybe that is a good idea, let's think about it.  Watch, you want to drive them crazy, they're going to go crazy.  All I have to do is say, "Let's think about it.  They're going to go crazy.  No, I promise 2024, I leave.  By that time, just so you know, by that time our country will be to thank the country of Mexico.  They right now have 27,000 soldiers on our borders.  27,000.  You know what that is? And they are keeping people out.  And I want to thank the President of Mexico.  He's an excellent person, great man.  And we appreciate it.  And the reason is that our Democrats won't even approve things called loopholes.  They're loopholes.  That's a horrible name, right? That means it's a loophole.  That means you can come in illegally and lots of things.  Catch and release.  You catch them. speech, and Tennessee is very early voting.  Remember what he said? This was four years ago.  He said, "I don't know what's happening in Pennsylvania.  I don't know what's happening in the rest of the country.  But if what's going on in the rest of the country is like what's going on in Tennessee?" He said, "They're coming from the Hills, the roadsides, the rivers. " He said they're coming, people that never really cared to vote, they're great Americans, but they never wanted to vote for the people that they were seeing.  He said, it immediately.  He opposed the mission to take out Osama Bin Laden.  He was against it.  Everything he did, he was wrong on as said by Gates, you know? Secretary of Defense, Secretary of everything.  He was sort of like … He had more jobs than any human being I've ever seen.  But he said, "Everything, everything that Biden was for was wrong. " He opposed killing Soleimani.  He oversaw the rise of Isis.  He was unable to do anything with Isis.  as he came to the White House two weeks ago. Florida, Texas, Ohio, North Carolina, South … But Michigan is Michigan.  Thank you.  I don't think there's any law enforcement officer that is against us.  What is our poll number? 99.  I know they had 365,000 at one group, and they got a unanimous vote.  I said, "That's pretty good".  How can you go the other way? You people are fantastic, and we love you.  Thank you.  That's great.  Thank you very much.  Appreciate it.  Biden says he wants to protect Black lives, but his radical platform will cut seen.  What do you mean?" He said, "A doctor worked on my face for 10 hours in the field.  He said there were a thousand fragments. " Now I don't know if that's right, but well, a lot.  He meant a lot.  "He said there were a thousand fragments.  He rebuilt my nose with glue.  He glued the bones together.  He rebuilt my nose. " I say, "You have the most beautiful nose I've ever seen," and it's true.  And his father came over to me, he said, "Sir," father was crying, a million criminal aliens.  We built over 320 miles, as of today, border wall and we're adding 10 new miles every single week.  We're doing about 10 miles a week and we'll be finished with the wall very shortly.  And you think, "That was an easy one. " That was not an easy one.  We were fought.  Two things, and I say it, two things that never get old.  Remember the Democrats are saying, "A wall won't work. " "Really? Tell me about it. " Wall works.  That's one of the reasons our  Some people did something. " She pleaded for compassion for ISIS recruits right here in Minnesota.  Omar laughed that Americans speak of Al-Qaeda.  You remember that tape? Speak of Al-Qaeda.  But when we say something about the United States, you just don't say America with any intensity.  Remember that? Representative Omar has a history of launching virulent anti-semitic screeds, whether you like it or not.  She's said the US support for Israel is all about the Benjamins.  She said that pro-Israel lawmakers have an allegiance to a foreign country.  Omar wrote that right, we lost when it didn't matter.  But we have it.  We have a great travel ban now for countries that are not countries where we want the people coming in.  Over the last three years, ICE officers have made over 380,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records, including those charged or convicted of over 145,000 assaults, 40,000 sex crimes and 5, 800 murders.  Over the last three years, border patrol and ICE have seized over two million pounds of fentanyl, heroin, meth, and other deadly narcotics.  And you see it all the time.   I had such a nice life before I did this.  I had such a nice life.  Then I had the witch hunt that goes on forever.  It goes on.  And then we catch them spying on our campaign.  How about that? Let's see what happens though.  But we caught them spying, all of that, the whole big deal.  And then the guys that were doing the investigation, they have their 31 different phones, they were accidentally wiped clean.  31 different phones, I think it was like 19 different people, and they take it away from you.  I don't think so.  Crazy Elizabeth Warren, or as I affectionately call her, Pocahontas, her ridiculous plan would cost $52 trillion.  That's more money than we take in in one year, two years, three years, four years, five years, six years, about seven years.  That's for one year.  $52 trillion.  And you don't have your doctor.  I mean, the whole… Well, she's starting to crash again.  I thought I knocked her down.  I did that heavy, heavy Pocahontas deal.  I give her credit.  I going to keep on fighting.  And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, we are going to keep on winning.  Vote for John James.  John James.  We need John James.  We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God, and together, with the incredible people of Michigan, we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you, Michigan.  We We need a doctor.  A doctor in the house, please.  A doctor, please.  Doctor in the house.  Thank you.  Take your time, please.  Take your time.  We've got plenty of time.  Thank you.  Take your time.  Thank you, Doctor.  Take your time.  People have been standing outside for two days to get in, so this happens.  Thank you.  Thank you, Doctor.  Doing better? Good.  That's good.  That's good.  That's great.  That's really great.  Thank you! Thank you, sir.  Thank it'll be an obsolete business, the cable business.  MSDNC will be out of business.  You know, cable was supposed to be obsolete and now they're doing the highest numbers they've ever done.  If an airplane goes down with 700 people, they don't cover it.  If it's not Trump related, they don't cover it.  It's got to be Trump or Trump related.  So if a plane goes down and it's total devastation, if the ship goes down, if the Titanic- If the Titanic equivalent went down, they wouldn't cover it unless I was on the all backgrounds who build up our communities, not the violent criminals and extremists and agitators and anarchists who burn them down.  Next time you see video of screaming far left maniacs shouting wildly at peaceful Americans, remember this.  These are Biden supporters, and if he wins, they will be in charge of your government as sure as you're sitting there.  You'll be taking your monuments down.  You'll be taking your statues down.  I'm not kidding, you'll be taking them down.  You have to look at the D. C.  report, I'm just telling you, hell.  When a country doesn't have borders, you don't have a country.  Today, a Democrat speaker at the convention said, "We're talking about abolishing the police, we're talking about abolishing ICE, we're talking about abolishing prisons. " Biden's campaign has turned into a cult for open border and others Zealots.  By the way, they want to double and triple your taxes, they want to increase regulations, they want to spend very little money on our vets, after we took care of our vets better than anyone's.  91% approval rate.  And they want to spend much border agents.  And they looked down upon the hardworking citizens who truly make our country run.  But while the Democrats rage and resist … That guy's got a serious weight problem.  Go home, start exercising.  Get him out of here please.  You got a bigger problem than I do.  Got a bigger problem than all of us.  Now he goes home and his mom says, "What the hell have you just done?" We are continuing our incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country.  There's never been a from coming out here and coming into the US, in Europe and the rest of the world, 188 countries.  But it is what it is and we're not happy about it and we're going to remember it.  We're going to remember it, but we had in Michigan and in the country, the greatest economy in the history of the world, there has never been an economy.  Now, we're building it again and it's being built fast.  By the way, it's turning out to be John, a super V.  No more V.  Now it's starting Fake polls.  They're fake polls.  Then we have a crowd like this.  I don't know.  Look, the cameras, are you turning around? These guys are bad people.  I swear.  They never turn the cameras around, ever.  Turn them around.  Turn them around.  They never tell, look at them.  It's just like a bunch of stiffs.  Real stiffs.  Why don't you turn the cameras around for once? You look back there, you can't see it.  There's got to be, feels like Madison Square Garden on the ground except know, you say you want low taxes, good education, strong military, strong borders.  You want to have safe homes.  You want a house, you want low interest rates, you've got low … Hey, you got low interest rates.  The lowest ever.  Got low rates, it's a good time to refinance your house, by the way.  Great time.  You got everything, and then you see these people they're against … They have no idea what they're doing.  They have no idea what they're against.  Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive factory to produce tens of thousands of ventilators, after we invoked the Defense Production Act, and they've done a fantastic job.  Not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator any time in our whole country.  They needed a ventilator, we had nothing.  We were left, bare cupboards.  I always say the cupboards were bare.  We're delivering lifesaving therapies, and have achieved among the lowest case fatality rates anywhere of any country in the world.  Europe's excess mortality rate is 24% higher than the rate in the United States. harder was it to go up the tree than down?" He said, "It was easy going up. " The hard part was coming down because if he missed, that was where the danger was, right? That was where the danger.  But many times, world champion.  Could you still do it today? "A little bit heavier," he said.  You got to carry a little bit more weight.  That's all right.  That's not a good sign though, right? Anyway, great job.  We love having you Rachel, thank you very much.  You are a friend.  they would have known it too, because they drove back with me. " The press follows me, they have a special deal, and then they followed me and then we go in, we go out.  But if you remember, last time, I go in, I spend a little time, a physical like we all have.  Hopefully you have them.  Good thing to have I guess, as long as they give you a good answer.  If they give you a bad answer don't bother, possibly too late.  But I go in, I come out a couple I'm just reporting this, I got zero time on the nightly news, on the network news.  Zero, zero.  We got zero time.  Think of it, the President of your country is honored by being nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, and your nightly news, ABC, which is terrible, CBS, which is terrible, and probably the worst of all owned by Concast, they spend a fortune on PR, and then every time I get up, I call them Concast and sort of wipe out their fortune.  But they are bad people.  But NBC is the worst This is the elite.  You know who are the elite? You look at those jobs reports.  We're the best in history unemployment for African Americans, best in history unemployment Hispanic Americans, best in history unemployment Asian Americans.  You're the elite.  You're the elite.  But they said they'll do it again because this has been a total bust.  They'll do it again.  And by the way, the Senate's been so professional, so good, so strong, so solid.  Just like these gentlemen in the House.  So solid.  So we have to vote Probably, I can say they're coming back like never before.  People are coming back now, because they want to be where the action is.  And this is the country where they have the security, and where they do have the action.  In my first week in office, I proudly withdrew from the last administration's job-destroying… and this was a catastrophe.  You know, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, TPP, this would have destroyed the automobile business in our country.  Now New Mexico, you know that you were totally devastated by another disaster known as NAFTA.  Your state affected, very little meaning a small percentage of 1%.  It's an incredible thing.  Nobody knew that when it first came here, nobody assumed a thing like that was possible.  But young people are very strong against this horrible disease.  Through our historic China virus relief programs, we've saved more than 1. 3 million jobs for North Carolina workers.  That worked out great.  We provided $380 million in relief for North Carolina farmers and made $10 million in PPP loans to save- … And made $10 million in PPP loans to save your state's tobacco experienced the smallest contraction of any major Western nation.  Think of that.  And by far, the fastest recovery.  And if they wrote about it properly, it would be a proper thing, a proper thing to do.  Through our historic relief programs, we've saved more than half a trillion Nevada cops and jobs and all of this yet.  So many people going out.  We've saved 42,000 Nevada businesses.  Think of that.  Biden would terminate this comeback.  He wants to end it.  He would terminate this comeback.  He would put your country.  Our country will be destroyed.  We've all worked too hard.  They don't know what the hell they're doing.  Some do actually, but in a very sinister way.  Virtually every policy that has hurt black Americans for half a century, Joe Biden has supported or enacted.  I've done more for the black community in four years than Joe Biden has done in 47 years.  Racial justice begins with Joe Biden's retirement from public life.  We are joined tonight by many outstanding Republican leaders.  These are great people.  We have two What a picture? But we're going to have the country all set for your child, okay? Awesome, because that's what it's about.  Now the media will say that's a prop, they say no baby is so beautiful.  That had to be a set up.  I never saw that guy in my life, which is true.  Thank you.  Good luck.  Thank you very much.  We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those four beautiful words, made in America, made in the USA, either one is okay with me. before.  I'd never heard we're going to build a wall. " We're going to have secure borders.  We're going to make new trade deals that are like sane.  We're going to do all the things we're going to rebuild our military.  We're going to have a strong country again.  We did so many things, and Rush heard this.  I didn't know Rush.  I mean, maybe I met him once, twice, for two seconds.  And he became an instant fan of Trump.  And he was for a long time before I even the father and whoever the hell they sat down with.  Walks out with one and a half billion dollars to manage, he'll make millions of dollars a year, and he has no experience at all.  Never happened before.  Biden's plan is to appease the domestic terrorists.  My plan is to arrest them.  So on November 3 America faces a very simple choice.  Do what you want, vote for the candidate backed by violent left wing rioters if you have to, or do what you want to vote for the candidate backed by the selfless Because they don't want it to happen before the election.  He said, "This is the only thing in the world.  I've never seen anything like it.  Everybody wants a vaccine.  And when we start getting it fast, because President Trump happens to be president … " and we've done this in record time, years ahead of schedule.  If this was Sleepy Joe and Obama, you wouldn't have a vaccine for three years.  But listen, he said, "This is the craziest thing. " So you're going to have a vaccine quickly.  Right? And everybody's North Carolina, nearly 50 Democrat State House members and candidates have signed a pledge to slash police funding, endangering your families.  I was recently honored to be endorsed by 54 sheriffs throughout this state, and we're joined by many of them tonight.  Where are they? Thank you, Sheriff.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, folks.  Thank you.  Thank you.  You got to take care of our law enforcement.  We got to take care, nobody can do the job like them.  We have to let them do their job.  We've  On our way to work one morning down the path along the lake, a tender hearted woman saw a poor half frozen snake.  His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew.  "Poor thing," she cried, "I'll take you in and I'll take care of you. " Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake.  Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake.  She wrapped him up all cozy in a comforter of silk and laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk.  back, but with us, they take them back.  They take them back.  Very great.  It helped a lot when we were paying them hundreds of millions of dollars a year.  Think of it.  I just said, we're not paying them anymore.  All of a sudden they said, "We would love to have our wonderful gang members back.  We would love to have our gang members back, sir. " Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings, seven straight months in a row, and we're being helped want that.  Then we would go, Keep America Great, you'd clap if you like that.  Okay, are you ready? First, Make America Great Again.  Ready? Keep America Great.  You know, that, I call that a free poll.  That's better than a poll.  Do you ever see these crazy polls that come out? We're doing great in the polls, by the way.  Remember, I used to come out and talk about the polls? We'll start doing that very soon.  We're doing great in the polls, but this is like a free poll.  got so much stuff now.  We were depleted.  Now we have great … But they said to me, "Does this mean … " And I had to give this answer.  I can't believe it didn't get leaked by some sleazebag.  We have leakers all over this place, but a lot of it didn't leak.  A lot of it is just made up by the newspapers.  They make up phony stories.  They say, "Donald Trump woke up today.  He was in a very bad mood, according to sources. " There is no source. the mountains, come out from areas that they've never come out.  We have lines that are five blocks long at every voting booth and parlor. " He said, "I can't speak for the rest of the country, but if the rest of the countries like Tennessee, you're going to have the greatest victory in the history of our nation. " And that's what happened.  That was a great statement.  That was a great statement from people from a great state, also.  Tomorrow you must elect the entire Republican ticket, from governor on down, including your next was weak.  As a Senator, he was weak.  He was not known as being one of the smart ones and now it's not exactly primetime, I can tell you that.  I just want to announce tonight because we're joined with some very, very special warriors and Dan Meuser, Dan, thank you very much.  Great job you're doing.  Dan, Congressman.  He's a Congressman who have really been warriors for me.  You really have been.  Thank you very much Dan.  Fred Keller, Fred, thank you.  Great job, Fred.  The great John partisan and unconstitutional effort threatens grave and lasting damage to our democratic institutions, to our system of free elections, and to the American people. " That's what it is.  To the American people.  It's so terrible.  Democrats are on a crusade to destroy our democracy.  That's what's happening.  We will never let it happen.  We will defeat them.  I mean, look at their debates.  These people are crazy.  They want to spend $99 trillion to redo buildings all over the United States.  I said, "What about China? What about Russia? Soleimani spread death, destruction, and mayhem across the Middle East and far beyond.  He ordered the violent assault on the American embassy in Baghdad.  And you saw this was the anti-Benghazi.  We got there very quickly.  We got there very quickly.  This is the exact opposite, we did it exactly the opposite of Benghazi, where they got there so late, all they saw when they got there days later were burning embers from the days before.  That's all they saw.  We got there very early.  We saw what was happening.  I the worst schools, they have the worst … I said, "Stay with me," because they were with the Democrats for a hundred years, more.  I said, "Stay with me.  What the hell do you have to lose?" You know what? You know what? Remember that? Now they have the best employment and unemployment numbers, they have the best poverty numbers, they have numbers that nobody would believe.  They're doing so great.  It's so great to see it.  It's incredible.  Youth unemployment, African American youth.  It's been great.  We're asking all Americans to our country, it's heading that way.  If you take a look, automobile manufacturing, housing, retailing, they're all setting records, they're through the roof, hard to believe, actually, during the rounding the corner, when I say rounding the corner, they go crazy.  They want to keep it going as long as possible.  If you say anything positive, they say, "He's not telling the truth to the American public. " I am actually telling the truth.  You know these people, they talked about, because I said, "Well, Winston Churchill was a great leader. " They said the other way we were treated, we're probably entitled to another four after that.  And it should never happen to another President.  That's just a dishonest group of people.  But here we are, and we're going to be here for another four years.  The governor of your state- … tried very hard to stop us from having this event tonight.  He didn't like us having… They can have riots and they can have all sorts of things and that's okay, you can burn up the house, that's okay.  We call this a protest because if you his mind on fracking.  Okay? "There will be no fracking. " You know that? He went all throughout the debates.  He doesn't even know what fracking is, I guarantee you.  He was told to say that by Bernie and the radical left and his vice president.  By the way, how bad is she? She is the worst.  We're going to have a woman president some day.  Not going to be her, not going to be her.  And that's no way to attain the office.  We got in there because Sleepy Joe couldn't Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of Ohio, the best is yet to come.  Because together, we will Carolina, hello, North Carolina.  We love you, North Carolina.  I'm thrilled to be in Fayetteville with thousands of loyal, hard working American patriots.  And you know what's going to happen in 45 days from now, and you're watching those polls.  They go up, up, up up.  45 days from now, we're going to win North Carolina.  We're going to win four more years in the White House.  As we meet tonight, our nation mourns the loss of a legal giant Supreme Court Justice, Ruth Bader Ginsburg.  Her landmark rulings, fierce devotion to nobody watches than put on a conservative person and lift the ratings five times.  They would rather have a fail… Seven months ago we had a little skit, and they were hoping the market would crash because they would rather lose their money, or big parts of it, and have a really horrible market on the basis that we, not me, we could not be elected on November 3rd.  This is how crazy- … on November 3rd.  This is how evil, this is how crazy they are.  They've gone crazy.  I guess you call it all these horrible things.  You know why? Because they never thought in a million years that I was going to release a transcript of the call.  So Nancy Pelosi, upon hearing a false story from a whistleblower that had no clue what was going on in that call, or somebody gave her very bad advice, but also hearing it from shifty shift Nancy Pelosi said, a day before seeing the transcript of the call with the Ukrainian president, "We've got to impeach him.  We've got to impeach him. " Right? And then she saw the call and shot in the head while he was doing his job, a vicious criminal left, he was a left person, a left.  He was a real left, all right.  And the, the young officer as you know, he's a young, brilliant, young guy and he's totally paralyzed.  Unlike Biden, while I'm President of the United States, I will always stand with the heroes of our law enforcement.  And on November 3rd, you will save America.  You're talking about saving America.  We cannot let this happen to our country.  Because I don't know if you are off, but we're going to have… We're lowering taxes.  He's raising taxes.  We're going to have tremendous growth.  Joe Biden's party continues to attack our incredible border agents.  They're incredible people, more than half of whom happen to be Hispanic-Americans.  Did you know that? I know all of them.  "Jose, how you doing?" "Juan, how you doing?" Every sixth time, I'd say, "Hello, Jim, how are you?" These extraordinary patriots deserve our admiration, gratitude and respect, not Joe Biden's contempt.  He's got contempt for these people that are so great and brave. few nights ago, or last night was so incredible.  What we had last night was just incredible, in Minnesota.  We're going to win it, 1972, we're going to win it.  1972, it hasn't … That's a long time ago.  Remember? I think Reagan won every state except for Minnesota.  We're going to win Minnesota.  What we've done for them, we've opened up their livelihood again.  Maine.  How about Maine? I opened up 5,000 square miles of ocean.  Obama closed it.  They said, "Why? He had no idea. " Right off we won 306, and do you remember they sued to say one's the 100 yard dash.  You practice.  One's the mile.  You practice.  It's a different race.  Winning the total vote is much easier in my opinion.  The electoral college, I had to go to 22 different states.  For the total vote, I'd go to four states maximum, right? Much easier.  It's much easier.  I'm all for it, but the electoral college is better for our country because it forces you to go places that you wouldn't go.  I love I realized, if you look at that last few months, we were starting to come together.  I was getting calls from, you won't believe it, Democrats.  I was getting calls from Democrats and they were saying, "Wow, things are going really well. " It was starting to happen and now we have to get it back to a level of great success because it'll happen again.  There'll be great unity, eventually there'll be great unity.  So get your friends, and get your family, get your neighbors, and your coworkers and vote.  And I say this never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, one great country.  One America.  We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  And we live by the words them out of jail as soon as possible.  Including one who attempted to murder a police officer, a man who was accused of sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl.  This is what we're dealing with.  This is what we're dealing with.  You know Kamala was considered, is considered further left than Crazy Bernie, think of that.  They got there … I mean seriously, watch.  You know the manifesto that Biden and … It's not Biden, Biden has not agreed to anything.  His people, his representatives, because Biden doesn't know he's alive, let's not kid live by the words of our great national motto, In God We Trust.  We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who built this country into the greatest nation ever to exist in history.  Our ancestors crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and put a man on the face of the moon.  Proud citizens like the people of Minnesota helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  said, we did a horrible job.  He said, they got lucky.  It's not contagious like this.  We got, this is a tough one.  I can look at that guy and he'll catch it.  Right there, and he's very far away from me.  It's a tough one, because it's so contagious.  I tell you what, our Vice-President, Mike Pence, and the task force, headed up by Mike and working along with a lot of great people, they've done a fantastic job and they just get no credit.  If I was a Democrat, a police.  Thank you, sheriffs.  Thank you, sheriffs.  I love the sheriffs.  We got the endorsement from all the sheriffs in Florida, everybody up in Ohio and Texas.  We have the stuff, nobody's ever seen anything like it, the endorsements from law enforcement.  We're going to increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement.  We will ban deadly sanctuary cities.  We will defeat everybody that we have to, including the virus, but we will defend the dignity of work, and we will defend the sanctity of life.  We will uphold religious liberty, free military was totally depleted.  And by the way, speaking of our military, have we taken care of our vets with Choice, with Choice.  That was a big thing.  You know, I used to go around and the VA was a terrible situation.  People would wait weeks.  He's right, he said, "Yes, it was. " You don't hear too much about that anymore, have you noticed? Choice and accountability, you know what accountability is? For 44 years, they tried to get accountability.  That's somebody bad, works for the VA, you couldn't fire them.  You while China stole our secrets from American agriculture.  Your business, what they do scientifically, nobody understands what they have done to a seed.  It doesn't sound complicated.  It is genius, what they have been able to do, what you have been able to do.  But those secrets were being stolen, stolen.  And installed massive barriers to your exports.  You couldn't do anything with exports, so people, not only China, many, many other places were stealing your secrets.  Our new agreement with China will protect our intellectual property and pry open vast new markets for office.  Are we glad I ran for office? I think so.  It's funny, I was watching the different… I find it fascinating.  I'm watching the different returns coming in and I'm watching as much as I can of this stuff.  I love it.  We all love it.  If you don't love it, you're not going to do it very well.  The crazy New York Times, which was a dead newspaper when I ran, it was dead as a doornail.  A month before I ran, Doug, I held up a New York the statues.  So on the statutes, they were knocking them down three or four months ago.  I said, "Do we have any laws? No, but there was a very old law. " I said, "What was it?" You get 10 years in jail, 10 years in prison, they actually use the word prison, which is a tough word.  You get 10 years in prison if you knocked down a statue or a monument.  I said, "Let me see that law, I want to see that law. " Right, Glen, right? I want to see that law. lot leftover, but we will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America.  We'll have that done within 10 years.  It could have started.  That could have started earlier than the beginning of our administration.  We'll have that done in less than 10 years.  Think of that.  The AIDS epidemic will have ended in America within less than 10 years.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  Above all, we will out good.  We only have 11 cases and they're all getting better.  But our trade agreement with China will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and substantially boost exports of American made goods.  Is that nice? After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country.  On no issue of Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than a thing called immigration, right? Before I came into office, the far left's policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country and that's what they want.  one, "No Bible, no oil, no guns. " I think you could be Abraham Lincoln and not win that particular race.  And it wouldn't be much different in the State of Pennsylvania, that I can tell you.  But you know, somebody that believes in that is Sleepy Joe Biden.  He was caught telling a far left radical activist that he would shut down fossil fuel production in Pennsylvania.  You saw that.  But the voters of this Commonwealth will never, ever let that happen.  Can you imagine a guy coming in, whether it's him or to restore and expand catch and release across the entire US border.  You believe that? We just got rid of it.  Free all illegal aliens from federal detention and close detention facilities, this would make removing illegal aliens totally impossible, and you would have murderers, killers, rapists in your midst.  I don't think so.  Immediately suspend all removals, triggering a tidal wave of, really a flood, if you think, a flood all across our border.  End prosecution of illegal border crosses ensuring that illegal aliens will repeatedly reenter the country over and over again and polls? When people are leaving, they're always very accurate.  People leave.  "Who you voted for?" "I voted for Trump. " "Who you voted for?" "I voted for crooked Hillary.  I don't care that she's a stone cold crook.  I'm voting for her. " Who are you voting for? I'm voting for Trump, or Clinton, or Trump.  They're always very accurate, but this time something happened.  Many people, many… I like that idea.  I like it.  I like it.  Wouldn't we like to run against her.  who's tougher? Her, crazy Bernie, and I'll say it just once, what happened to me with this witch hunt should never be allowed to happen to another president of the United States.  Never, ever again.  I want to thank Republican leadership for what they've done for all of us, by stopping that hoax, the Russian hoax I call it, because America is winning again.  America's respected again, and, because we are finally putting America first.  Our economic policy can be summed up in three very beautiful and simple words, jobs, jobs, jobs.  We've created 6 million new jobs since election We got hit.  The whole world got hit, but they stopped it from going into the rest of China.  They stopped it from going into China, but they didn't stop it from coming into the US and Europe and 188 countries.  So whether or not we allow Biden to impose the biggest tax increase in the history of our country, $4 trillion, or ban … He wants to ban energy, ban American … He wants to stop fracking.  Hey, by the way, when he was running as a Democrat, in the worst debate performances I've ever  That was all made possible by our pro energy policies.  We've done it a lot.  In Louisiana, we're building some of the largest plants you've ever seen, largest in the world and it's incredible, all related to energy, but your security and your jobs are in very grave peril, because the radical left maniacs, they don't want to have anything to do with energy.  They don't want anything to do with, they have different concepts, right? They have the green new deal, whether it will be no energy, almost of any kind.  No, it's crazy. Good team.  Good everything.  You have a good team.  You always have a good team.  But there was a case, what do I know? I said, "How's it going? Everything good? Are you struggling?" They said, "Sir, Sleepy Joe Biden did an ad that you," me, "that you closed football. " I said, "What do you mean I closed? I didn't close. " The guy did an ad.  It's called disinformation.  It's called the opposite of what the fact is.  Not only didn't I close it, I didn't think about it too much, River.  But after an hour, the general that runs it is a fantastic guy.  After an hour, we land, we do some more inspections and they say, "Sir, are you ready? Yes, I am. " So we walked like the equivalent of about three blocks, which is fine.  We go onstage, which is fine.  They make speeches, then I make a speech that lasted a long time.  I don't know, maybe 45 minutes, maybe longer, I don't know but a long time.  The sun is pouring down on me, okay.  But they said the president.  I wish he was going to win, but let's go out to dinner.  Then we'll come home.  Let's not bother voting, right? Let's not bother voting. " See, it's a suppression, but my people might don't get suppressed.  My people go out and vote.  My people go out and vote.  There's no suppression.  Phony polls.  How about the guy? The New York times hired this pollster, this great genius.  He never called one wrong.  I don't know.  Three, 46. .  I don't know what the hell other reasons, because this is a great place.  You have a governor right now who's a political hack.  We want to put violent criminals behind bars.  And tell you governor to open up your state, by the way.  Open up your state.  You know, just so you know, these shutdowns, we did the right thing.  We had the greatest economy in the history of the world.  They came in, they … We were all seeing what was happening.  We closed up.  I mean, you know, you're presiding over the greatest economy  You gotta go by November 9th because the markets have gone through the roof since November 9th.  That's the day after I won the election.  So I won the election.  The markets went up thousands of points.  Things started happening.  You started doing things that you would've never.  Even though I didn't get sworn in until January 20th, but they refused to do that.  And let me tell you, if for some reason I wouldn't have won the election, these markets would have crashed.  That'll happen even more so in 2020. the drug dealers, traffickers, predators, and we're throwing them to hell in jail or sending them back home.  MS-13, for the first time that you've ever seen this, MS-13 is totally on the run.  Many of its leaders are right now behind bars and we're deporting its members in record numbers we've never reported.  I can't believe how many there are.  But if Biden wins, it will be a giant jail break for MS-13 and vicious criminal gangs.  China wants him to win so badly.  Iran wants him to win so badly.  When we got you and the regulation cuts.  Three years.  So, you had 450, 975, that's eight and eight.  Now we're down to three years, a little less, three years, $ 10,000 per family a year.  10,000 a year.  Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and ending the tyranny of federal bureaucrats.  I deal with them.  They're not good.  It's called the swamp.  We've ended the war on American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump, reducing your prices.  Part of that number is all of to your kids.  They all said, "Thank you very much, Daddy and Mommy," and then they went out and mortgaged the hell out of the place and they ended up losing it to the banks.  But we got rid of the estate tax on small farms and businesses and really great things.  Little stuff like that we've done that we never said we were going to do, but these people were ransacking your communities.  But we are defenseless no more, because at long last you have a president who puts America first.  Been a long We say, you're fired, get out, right? Get out.  They got rid of a lot of bad people that were there for a long time.  Sort of like me in Washington, draining the swamp.  I never knew it was so deep.  But it's happening.  It's happening, I never knew it was so deep.  It's deep and thick and a lot of bad characters.  Thank you.  We're lowering the price of prescription drugs, making our allies pay their fair share.  They get a big bargain on drug prices and enacting fair trade see.  If you go to a hospital, they won't even tell you how much it's going to cost.  They operate and then they'll give you a bill and you'll say, "Oh my god, I had no idea it could be. " They take blood.  We have one person, blood $39.  Another place, the exact same thing, $2500.  Take blood, a blood test.  One is $39 one, is $2500.  The same test.  Maybe the $39 test is better.  Who the hell knows? But it's crazy.  Price transparency and he looks at lowest case fatality rates of any major country.  Nobody knows that.  And I am devastated to see it happening, but you see what's going on in Europe again.  They were always saying, "Oh, Europe is doing better. " Actually we did better, but now Europe has a big spike, a big spike.  So they're not talking about that.  The number of hospitalized virus patients is down by 47% and virus patients coming to the emergency room is down and visits are way down, visits to hospital.  Europe has almost a 50% greater excess mortality vital and we're putting up miles and miles, and we intend by next year, at the end of the year, to have anywhere between 400 and 500 miles of wall built, and this is serious wall.  This is the real deal.  Serious wall.  And I want to thank our new Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, for the job he's done and he views it really as a national security threat, and you have to.  What can be much more threatening that people that want to pour across our borders, and we have the worst walls, we here.  He never choked.  He kicked for 11 years.  You know what that is? You ever see a golfer.  They miss a three footer.  They miss a three footer.  They can't take it back.  They choke, choke, choke.  Well, kickers are the same.  Right? NFL kickers.  This guy lasted 11 years.  He's one of the best kickers ever.  NFL kicker, Jay Feely.  Where's Jay? Where is Jay? He's here someplace.  Where is he? Jay? What happened? You couldn't get a good seat, Jay.  I remember saw what was happening, and I said, "What's that all about?" And that was going to be another Benghazi.  Had they broken through the final panels of glass, they were breaking and breaking it, had they gotten through, we would have had either hundreds of dead people or hundreds of hostages.  That wasn't going to happen.  And I called up our great generals, and I said, "Get them over there now. " And one of our leaders, one of our really admired people, said, "Sir, we'll have them there tomorrow. " I said, "Nope, get in the  You don't get to 270, it's over.  You can't win, right? He cannot do it.  There's no way of doing it, and they were right.  I got to 306.  They were right.  But I didn't get to 306.  You got to 306.  We won incredible states.  We won incredible states.  We won Wisconsin, we won Michigan, we won Pennsylvania, we won North Carolina, we won South Carolina, we won Florida.  What a run.  Do you remember the evening that we won? I think… Look, forgetting me, I think politics and a great guy.  He's a great guy, Haley Barbour.  … Hourly earnings are up 9% in Mississippi since the election.  Under the previous two administrations, we lost 60,000 factories in our country.  Under my administration, we've already added nearly 10,000 new factories, and many more are coming in as we speak.  To get relief to working families, we passed massive tax cuts on average $2,000 to $2,500 per family, bringing almost $1 trillion back home to our shores.  What's happening? You couldn't get the money.  The big companies, they couldn't get and by the way their tape, take a look.  In almost every instance, it ends just before I run, and they said, "Here was the number one trending story. " I call my wife, I said, "How good was that speech? I thought it was a …" Hey look, I will tell you when I make good ones and bad ones.  Like so far tonight, I'm average, but we're having fun, we're having fun.  So far tonight, but I call my wife and I said, "How good was it, darling?" She said, "You're trending number one. " thugs.  They were thugs.  And the DC police are good, but the mayor gave bad instructions last night, that should have never been allowed to happen.  When a senator like Rand Paul walks out, and thank God we had some good police around him and they took a tremendous… They took tremendous abuse.  And Rand Paul was in big trouble last night, he's a good guy, he's a friend of mine, and that shouldn't happen to anybody.  But he is a US senator walking outside and those four policemen should be brought over to the are going to vote for me just like they did last time.  You know why? Because of trade.  Because I agree with Bernie Sanders, but my trade policies are much tougher than his and I'm able to do it.  All you have to do is how is China doing last year with my trade policy? Not too well.  And we had the best year we've ever had.  We're going to get a lot of Bernie Sanders voters because they like my attitude on trade.  They really like it because I've been telling people for possible.  And then China sent us the plague, thank you very much.  We will protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors.  And we'll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.  Always, always.  We will appoint more judges to interpret the Constitution as written.  We will end deadly sanctuary cities.  We will finish the wall, which has now 212 miles built and beautiful.  212 mile.  That's a lot of miles.  And let me tell you, you think that was an easy one, that was a tough one.  That party history of our country, and I just got impeached.  Can you believe these people? I got impeached.  They impeached Trump.  The best trade deals, the strongest military, I took care of the vets.  We got choice.  We got accountability for the vets, accountability.  We got all these things and they impeach your President.  No, that's not going to work.  Watch, just watch.  They want to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy, and overthrow the entire system of government.  That's not happening, I can tell you that.  Washington Democrats have think so.  But he's totally owned and totally controlled by the Washington swamp for many years.  Two months after president Obama put Joe in charge of Ukraine policy, they put Joe Biden in charge of Ukraine policy.  Listen to this.  And the press will not write it.  They say, "In totally unsubstantiated charges …" every time they talk about him.  President Trump has said that his son walked away with a fortune.  Now you know that's a totally unsubstantiated charge.  Really? It's not an unsubstantiated, it's fact.  Joe's son Hunter got by some people on the left.  "He's not an animal.  He's a human being. " He's not a human being.  They got to find him.  They got to find him.  And the penalty has to be very fast, very swift and very, very severe.  You can't do that.  We call for the death penalty if you kill a policeman.  You know that, right? But the anti police demonstrators, they cheered and cheered when they saw this.  And then they tried to stop them from even getting into the hospital.  As every single time, every time there's been a problem.  It's called "Houston strong. " Prime Minister Modi and I have come to Houston to celebrate everything that unites America and India, our shared dreams and bright futures.  I've also come to express my profound gratitude to the nearly 4 million amazing Indian Americans all across our country.  You enrich our culture, you uphold our values, you uplift our communities and you are truly proud to be American and we are proud to have you as Americans.  We thank you, we love you and I want you India.  In fact, we're about to crack 100 million tests.  And when you test, then you have, does this make sense? Then you have cases.  So we do all this testing, and I come home and I turn on NBC News.  It is so bad.  I think NBC, that's not only MSDNC.  I think NBC with Lester Holt.  There's another beauty.  Hi Lester.  How do you feel big in second place Lester? He surged from first place to second place.  But NBC News is so, I mean, it's just terrible. was one of the biggest shows of the year.  It was a tremendous success there.  But here I was, I signed with NBC and they didn't even want to waste the ink on an option.  Usually they have an option for not, you know, just like they didn't do it.  You stupid people.  So they paid me very little for the first season I think $25,000 a show, which is considered not good.  That's okay.  It was fun.  I didn't know it was going to be success, you know? Hey, just like all over the street, and all of the things that are washing into the ocean through their storm sewer system.  What's happened is San Francisco and what's happened to so many other places run by the radical left Democrats, it's unbelievable.  Los Angeles.  You take a look at Los Angeles, looks like a third world city.  But go back to Nancy's area, look at what's happened.  There's been no place in the country that's gone down like the area that Nancy Pelosi represents.  And she's wasting all of her time.  And you know of the street violently.  He had other charges against him.  And I put out, when is he going to be arrested? And they went in about 15 minutes later.  And I'll tell you what our federal government is so ready to go.  All they have to do is call us.  It'll all be solved very quickly.  They have to call them.  But all of these places are Democrat run places, radical left run places.  They don't know what the hell they're doing.  If Biden wins, the rioters, arsonists and anarchists win. billion on a plane.  I'm not going to do it.  I won't do it.  It's too much. " I said last night, I told this story, first time, I said, "It's got to have a three on it. " He said, "We can't do it.  No. " He called me up the following day, "We'll take 200 million off. " Somebody said, "Well, what are you losing?" I said, "Nothing.  In fact, we're gaining a generator. " And I said, "You got to build an extra generator. " He said, "We'll take 200 million off. that Canada was taking.  You know, Canada was charging our farmers 287% tariffs for dairy products.  Okay? So what happens is this, we're working on healthcare.  We're fighting to stop surprise medical billing.  I just signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very fast.  We've approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the brand drugs, but they cost a tiny fraction.  We've totally transformed veteran's healthcare, including getting long-sought VA choice and VA hat that you're wearing.  It said, "Keep America great. " It says, Make…" He doesn't care.  As long as it has Trump on in someplace, he doesn't care.  He doesn't discriminate.  But this was the same day that we had our conservative reporter beat to hell by that wise guy, who's now in big trouble for doing what he did.  And then he walks in wearing the hat, "Keep America great. " And he wears the hat and he's going like this because this was a big story.  You remember what they did to beginning, he's not a politician but he might as well be one.  He loves us.  He loves this party and he loves your state, lives here, Louis DeJoy.  One of the most successful people.  Thank you, Louis and your wife is… doing a great job Louis.  And a very special thanks to my son, Don Junior and Kimberly.  Great job.  Did Don Junior give a good speech? I heard that.  They all said, "He was on fire. " Well, he's fighting.  He loves this country.  My son loves this country. "Give it to them.  It's peanuts.  What the hell difference does it make? We want to thank the Adelsons.  They've been incredible fans and they love Israel.  They love Israel.  I just saw him sitting there.  I didn't know they were here.  I just see him sitting there.  He's something.  The chairman of the Nevada Republican party, who's really been great.  He's been with me for a long time and he's a very committed man.  Make America great again.  Oh, oh, oh.  Let's do a poll quick. Canada.  Great deal.  The USMCA will create countless jobs for farmers and manufacturers all across the state.  We need Congress to pass the USMCA immediately.  We'll make it a bipartisan deal.  We don't even want credit.  The unions benefit.  The non-unions benefit.  Everybody benefits.  It brings it back to fairness and it makes it very hard for our companies to leave our countries, go to Mexico or Canada.  We lose all our jobs.  We lose all our taxes.  We end up with empty factories and plants.  It everybody else, but you've had the greatest year.  You know that, Doug, number one year in the history of your state.  It's an incredible achievement.  Incredible achievement.  I don't know, this has to be pretty good stuff on the debate stage.  We'll talk about, "Well, you had the best… In many states, the best year they've ever had. " Then they said, "Let's get a new president. " I don't think that's going to work so easily.  The country's had the best year it's ever had.  Let's get a new president.  Let's things that we do get honored because nobody is doing what we do.  Nobody can do it like us.  We're the greatest country in the world again.  We have the greatest people.  We have the greatest military by far.  We've totally rebuilt our military.  Jobs are booming, incomes are surging, poverty is plummeting.  Factories are returning confidence is soaring, like these guys, the confidence is soaring, but you know, we do have somebody that I'd like to point out because this team is, they had a coach, and that coach was a very hoax.  Another big hoax.  I want football back.  I'm the one that's been saying.  Is that a correct statement? I want football back.  These are young, strong guys.  They're not going to be affected by the virus.  If you look at it, it's generally older people.  Older people that have heart conditions, that have diabetes, that have problems.  These are big strong guys.  They'll be just fine.  But I want football back.  I've been calling for football to be back, including Big 10.  Big 10, get with destroyed his house.  It's never been the same.  No wonder you sold it.  They finally gave up, and that was four years ago.  Anyway, thank you very much both for being here.  I appreciate it.  What great people.  Thank you, Steve.  Great job.  And I hope the buyer of his house didn't hear that little… Steve.  I hope the buyer didn't hear what I just said about your house.  He'll cancel… That's all right.  You'll sell it for more to somebody else, don't worry.  Republican party chair, It was a mess.  I met with generals, general believe it or not, one general, his name is Raisin.  I said, "What's your name?" Sir.  This guy's like out of a movie.  Watch, he's going to be famous after this but who cares? What's your name? And he goes, "Sir, my name is Raisin. " I said, "Raisin, like you mean a little raisin?".  Yes sir, it's my name, that's what they call me.  What's your last name? Kane.  I said, "You mean your name is Raisin Kane?" I said, Raisin Kane, you're cop.  If you would see how beautiful, if you would see how beautiful this is, it was like this perfect evening, the sun was setting, the faces of these great, great majestic heroes of our country, right? Heroes of our country.  And they want to blow Mount Rushmore.  But how about this one? The Democrats yesterday came out with a plan.  Did you see it? Now, they're the DC Democrats.  They want to change the name of the Washington Monument, perhaps take it down.  Thomas Jefferson, pretty good Thomas Jefferson, right? You could forget big victory.  We're grateful to have with us this evening some wonderful friends of mine, people that I've known forever, your former governor who did a terrific job, Chris Christie.  Chris.  Great Chris, great job.  Your wonderful Republican State Chairman Doug Steinhardt, what a job he's doing.  Thank you Doug.  Thank you Doug.  My campaign's two great New Jersey co-chairs and I think we'll play for the state … You know they all say Republicans can't win.  Tell me why? They said, "Should you move this to the Meadowlands?" I said, "No, o'clock in the evening until 12 o'clock in the afternoon.  Little change.  Just a minor change.  Because I have to get back to Washington to work.  I feel guilty.  This is too much fun.  But speaking to vice presidents and speaking of perfect vice presidents, if you become president, the first thing you have to do is choose a really horrible, horrible vice president.  So if the idiots ever want to impeach you, they have to say, I can't impeach him.  Look who we have.  I have the perfect vice president. pandemic worldwide, look, it's a terrible thing that a thing like this happened.  People were saying we could go to 41, 42% unemployment.  You know what we are now? 8. 4%.  I don't say that's … If you would have said that … And we have the strongest, highest stock market in history, so your 401ks are doing great.  If he got in, we would have the greatest depression in the history of our country.  I mean it.  I think 1929 would look like good times.  All right? Because he'd do everything wrong. incredible governor, and he was an incredible secretary, and he's been an incredible friend.  Rick Perry everybody.  There was nobody that got into the race tougher than Rick.  What he said about me, I'll never repeat again.  Even my own family didn't like me when he got finished.  And when he decided that I would be the one, he got out and there's nobody that's said better things about me.  But you're great Rick, and you did a fantastic job.  Every place you've been, you've been great.  Thank you very much.  won the great state of Wisconsin.  First time in many, many decades, that a Republican won.  And then we had a surprise, but not a surprise to us, because we're bringing back the auto industry.  We brought so much back to the great state of Michigan.  That was a shocker, remember that? Do you remember a certain hand on that beautiful board and they said, "You know this sport is getting awfully red. " That's Republican.  "There's a lot of red up there. " We had a lot of… That was one hell of a to do, is even to this day, look around at all those empty plants where people moved down and companies moved down to Mexico.  Not under the USMCA.  We got to get Nancy Pelosi to put it in for a vote, make it bipartisan.  She'll have tremendous Democrat support.  The farmers want it, the unions want it, the manufacturers want it, and by the way, 600,000 manufacturing jobs in this country, remember? You would need a magic wand.  You can't do that anymore.  Well, we did it, but we've got to get USMCA put we haven't closed up all of our industry, and we haven't closed up our businesses and lost all those jobs.  And right now, we're by far the largest economy in the world.  If you remember, you could look, if you go back five, six, seven years, in 2019 they say China was going to catch us as the world's largest economy.  Guess what? They're way behind.  They're way behind.  Because over the last three years, you see the stock market set 131 records from the day.  Think of that.  And that means jobs, they call them Latino, Hispanic.  They use different terms.  To me, I just loved the people.  I don't care, but let me just… Did you see it? Trump is leading Biden with the Hispanic community.  Trump is leading Biden.  Well, Hispanics like tough people.  They like people that are going to produce jobs.  They like… And by the way, the Hispanics understand the border better than anybody else.  They're better than anybody else.  No, but we're being… you know, it's unusual that a Republican would be leading a Democrat, not… it's right.  It's two people tonight.  Remember, when they say "Massive protest at the Trump rally," two people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning in a win like never before.  We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of the great state of New Mexico, we love you.  The best is country.  He's been educated at the highest level.  He was always the top at everything he's ever done.  And this is what he has.  And I'll be honest with you, John.  I think I can tell this story.  John and I were thinking about John.  I was thinking about John more than myself because I know talent.  And I said, "John, you can run for a certain House seat, right? And you're guaranteed to win.  You can run for another House seat.  It'll be a tough race, but you're going the stage.  Hard to believe, actually.  It turns out that Joe Biden was vice president, he worked with the so called whistle blower.  This is nothing but a partisan witch hunt, sabotage, and I'm sure they're going to say it's totally unsubstantiated, but one of them wrote this story.  Congratulations, by the way.  That's very nice.  That's really good.  That's the way you should do it.  Good.  Good.  Good.  In the twisted worldview of Democrats and the media, it's okay for politicians to ship our jobs to foreign countries, to mom where she will be in big trouble.  Because I guarantee you that mom voted for Trump.  And in 10 years from now, when I run yet again, she'll be voting for Trump too.  I'm only kidding.  I'm only kidding.  We drive them crazy.  We drive them crazy.  They say, "You know he's not leaving, don't you? He's never leaving. " They say, "He's going to win.  He's never going to leave. " These people, it's called Trump Derangement Syndrome.  It really is.  You know what they don't know Thank you very much.  What happened? They thought Hillary was going to win, so they didn't push it.  And then they said, "Wait a minute, these polls are getting a little close at the end. " And they tried like hell to get some judges approved, but it didn't work.  That's what happens.  You got to go and you have to act fast.  You got to get it done.  Get it done, right? We get things done like nobody's ever gotten it.  Oh, he was a great president.  He was great.  then you go out.  No, and then you go out and you look outside, and you have thousands and thousands because there's a spirit for what we're doing.  We're fixing our country, we're healing our country.  We're making America great again.  So I want to ask a couple of our great warriors to come forward.  Representative Glenn Thompson, come up here, Glenn.  Come up here.  A man that's been a friend of mine for a long time, Mike Kelly.  Don't get in the fight with Mike.  Come up, Mike.  A up his mind yet, but he would be fantastic.  I guess it's something you go back and you talk to your family, you talk to your wife and you make a decision.  They're all saying, "Are you going to support him?" I said, "I don't know if he's running. " So Corey, let us know please, if you don't mind.  Let us know.  Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro jobs, pro family, pro growth, and 100% pro American.  For decades and decades the permanent politicians in Washington pursued the very opposite.  They and murder.  Over 2,000 accused of murder, yet left wing politicians support sanctuary cities that release criminal aliens directly into the American community.  One of guests at the State of the Union was American citizen, Jody Jones.  I introduced him that night.  His beloved brother, Rocky, was murdered by a criminal alien in California, shot him eight times at close range, wouldn't stop.  Rocky's killer had been previously arrested many, many times, but under California's totally insane and outrageous sanctuary law, authorities were ordered to set him free.  Tragically, left wing politicians in New another one we've been trying, and in all fairness the unions made it very tough.  Civil service made it almost impossible.  Everyone said, "You're never going to get it done. " We got it done.  We want to thank the Republican Senate.  I want to thank some incredible people in the House of Representatives, and Kevin I want to thank you… … people in the House of Representatives.  And Kevin, I want to thank you because that was a great job you did on that one.  That was a great job, thank you, Kevin our enemy.  They are a very serious problem that we take care of, but they always seem to come along somewhere.  She refused to answer.  She didn't want to give an answer to that question.  Omar blamed the United States for the crisis in Venezuela.  I mean think of that one, and she looks down with contempt on the hardworking American, saying that ignorance is pervasive in many parts of this country.  And obviously and importantly, Omar has a history of launching vicious antisemitic screens.  When she talked about the evil Israel, and $150 billion, plus $1. 8 billion in cash.  You know they got? Nothing.  They got nothing.  I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  Every president for many, many decades said they were going to do it.  They never did it.  They never did it.  They didn't have the guts to do it.  They campaigned on it, they were all going to do it.  Then they got there, there was a lot of pressure put on them.  A lot of pressure don't love your children don't leave it to them and that particular tax won't matter," but if you love … Is there anybody here that does not love your children? Is there anybody here who loves your children? Well it's Iowa.  It's Iowa.  You love your children.  You know you have no tax to pay, you leave your . . .  No, it's great.  So when you're looking down at your children you're saying, "Oh did you get lucky? Did you get lucky? Look at them, they're enjoying life. " But only this way can am truly an environmentalist, but you have to understand.  When we do things and they don't, and we clean, and it's very expensive to do that and they don't, and we have this massive planet, and China, India, Russia, Germany, all these places, it's fuming up and we're doing our job and beautiful.  No, they have to do it also.  Otherwise, it just doesn't work the way it's supposed to.  They want to ban straws.  Has anybody ever tried those paper straws? They are not working too good.  Right? They want to ban straws, to win so badly.  Iran wants him to win so badly.  Let me tell you, I'm going to make a very fast deal.  The best deal you've ever seen.  I've already made one with China, but I can make even more.  They want me to lose because they will own the United States if I lose.  Iran.  President Obama gave them $150 billion for nothing.  I told them.  And look what happened to Biden in Ukraine where his son's paid $83,000 a month.  And he was jobless.  Give me of dollars left over.  You know what I did with that? We gave it to the US Treasury, right smack into the heart of the US Treasury.  And we're still getting those big tariffs.  Even though we made a trade deal with China.  I said, "No, you got to leave the tariffs on. " A lot of people didn't know it.  Schumer went, "Well, I don't like to do …" First of all, he didn't like tariffs, and then all of a sudden he loves it.  But when I made the deal with China, lot.  Nobody's done that.  It's record.  Think of that.  300.  That's a big percentage of the entire judiciary.  Think of that.  300.  And many, many court of appeals judges, but two great Supreme Court judges or justices.  And now we're going to get a third.  Can you imagine our enemies? Three in one term.  So many presidents, they just don't have the chance and it's so important.  But I said to my people, I said, so if they don't believe me, what I'll do is I'll make up They've tightened up, they've choked.  You know what that is, they choked.  They can't breathe because people have such respect for the office of the presidency, they have respect for the office of the president.  They have respect for our country again, our country is respected again.  We've confirmed more than 125 federal judges to apply the law as written, including two supreme court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  We've launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs, and last year, I'm so proud of this because we have no help is going to be, I think, a highly competitive candidate for a very important race, Dan Forest.  Thank you, Dan.  Thank you very much, Dan.  We also have North Carolina Republican Party Chair, Michael Whatley.  What a job you've done.  And, we have a man from North Carolina who loves this state.  He fights so hard.  He doesn't know what it is not to fight.  You know who I'm talking about? They got it, Mark.  You're all screaming, "Mark Meadows. " That's right.  He's great.  So many.  Jim reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years.  We passed record tax cuts and regulation cuts.  Nobody's ever done more, more than anybody else has ever done to keep our family farms in the family.  We've virtually eliminated the unfair estate tax, also known as the death tax.  So if you die in 100 years from now, and you have children who you love as opposed to children that you can stand … is anybody here they have children that they don't like, or perhaps can't stand? Because if you do, don't watched this horrible guy who gets lousy ratings, Anderson Cooper.  Well, the hatred, I mean, between him and Fredo.  You've got Fredo and … That's Cuomo, Fredo.  I call him Fredo, like from the movie.  Now I watched Anderson Cooper and I watched him apologize for even asking the question to Biden.  The good news is Biden didn't know too much about what the hell he was talking about.  Remember Biden said, "I don't know these people.  I don't know them.  I don't know them. "  we're dealing with life, right? or draw for them, they're going to open it.  They got nothing.  You know what? It's a shame what they're doing.  For political reasons, they'll be open.  You'll be open on November 4th, but you know what? From your standpoint, it's very close to the election.  It's very far if you have a restaurant, and you can't open your restaurant.  You can't open your store.  It's a disgrace and they ought to get together.  They ought to do it.  These are Democrat governors in all instances and Democrat mayors.  When two days later, you get nominated, did you know this, a second time, for a different deal.  Kosovo.  Serbia.  They've been killing each other for hundreds of years.  I stopped a lot of death and I did it like easy, it wasn't hard for me.  It's sort of a natural thing to do but we did a good thing.  But you know what? They did a check.  So I got nominated twice for the Nobel Peace Prize, that's a big deal, I don't know.  I should have gotten nominated seven times because we've done a great job with the FDA in clearing a path and you'll be seeing it very shortly.  And these are great companies that are doing it.  So we'll crush the virus and our opponents will, with him, they will crush America.  We can't let it happen.  This country is too great.  Our love of each other is too great.  This guy doesn't know he's alive.  He really doesn't.  He doesn't know he's alive.  He did an ad on an anonymous source that said about me making a statement about 13 straight months of wage gains of at least 3%, so the people that work so hard… You remember I used to say during the rallies before we won, people worked two jobs, three jobs and they made less money then they made 21 years before and now wages are going up, the economy is doing great and jobs have never been better.  So importantly, more than 70 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps.  Nearly 600,000 Americans entered the labor force last month alone.  Think of that.  And the unemployment rate for African-Americans violent, so vicious, moving so far left, it's out of control.  It's out of control.  The Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.  So we're thrilled tonight to be joined by several North Carolina Republican leaders.  Really great people.  They've been so helpful to me and they're doing an incredible job.  Lieutenant Governor, Dan Forest, Lieutenant Governor.  North Carolina, Treasurer Dale Folwell.  Greenville Mayor, PJ Connelly, I hear he does a good job, PJ.  And North Carolina GOP Chair, Michael Whatley incredible NCAA wrestling champion, great guy.  Can you please walk him up, even if you have about five.  Come here, come here.  Come here.  Come here.  You got to see this shirt.  You got to see this shirt.  I love it.  I've got to order me one that I can ride around.  Come on.  Come on up here.  He looks safe.  He doesn't look like he's going to start a fist fight.  He's a good fan, I guess.  You got to see this shirt.  I love it.  Is there any place worse than CNN.  And they're owned by people that really are bad.  I think they're very bad for our country.  The owners of Comcast, rotten company, bad for our country, very bad.  They try, they have all these PR things to try and keep their image nice and clean.  What they do on television is so disgusting.  I think in the old days you had to have licenses for this stuff, right? They can say whatever they want to say.  Let's see what happens over the next period of time.  Bunch of and we will make America great again.  Thank you very much. Thank you very much.  Thank you, Minnesota.  This is a great state.  We are going to win this state in a very short period of time.  Thank you.  This feels like the day before the election.  So we have 20,000-plus people inside.  We just set a new record.  And we have 25,000 people that we still love, outside.  And close to 100,000 people wanted to come tonight.  Thank you all.  This is great.  This is really public schools and require taxpayers to fund extreme late term abortion.  Biden's justices will erase national borders, they don't want borders, protect sanctuary cities, and compel the unlimited entry of foreign nationals.  And if you look at some of these jihadist nations, no thank you.  Somebody said, "That's not nice.  That's not politically correct. " I said, "That's okay. " They'll clip all the police departments, free violent criminals, shield foreign terrorists, and declare the death penalty unconstitutional, even for the most depraved mass murderers who kill women and children.  That's what they want.  to talk about it, Doug, tonight.  I don't want to talk about it.  I came up with the name Pocahontas.  Too early.  But fortunately, she's self-destructed anyway.  Did you ever see a phony like that? She's a phony.  She lost because she couldn't keep it straight on her own heritage.  She said she was an Indian.  I said, " I have more Indian blood in me than you have, and I have none. " She said, "Oh," and she panicked.  She panicked, and she had a test.  You know the cases now.  Winning a lot of cases.  But the wall is going up rapidly.  It's going up rapidly.  And this is a very serious wall.  This is the exact everything they wanted.  I went to the border patrol, incredible people and ICE.  Incredible people, tough people.  They love our country.  And I said, "Give me the specifications for the wall. " They said, "Well sir, we'd like steel, but would also like concrete and would also like rebar. " I said, "Well, what do you want? Which one?" So I did Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Pretty good.  Pretty good.  So our politicians shipped away our jobs, shed our sovereignty, surrendered our dignity, and saddled our nation in one foreign debacle after another, and we're still here.  He just said it.  We're still here, you better believe it, and we're here stronger than ever before we're here.  But all of that ended the day that I took the oath of office, the American people are in charge of their country again.  We cut a record number of job-killing regulations that were strangling that are working on it and 28,000 firefighters and first responders who courageously and bravely are fighting out there.  They are fighting and it's dangerous, it's dangerous.  It's rapidly spreading, hundreds of thousands of acres, it's not been anything quite like this one.  We spent the last four years reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the past 47 years.  Think of it, he's been there 47 years.  And he always says, "Well, why didn't you do this? Why did …" The guy just really in all fairness, I've been here three and a won.  I don't know, we must be doing… I will say this.  That happened and people came from the valleys.  They came from everywhere.  They Came from places that nobody's ever talked about before and it was the forgotten men and women, but the truth is I know these men and women and they're the most incredible men and women in this country.  They really are.  They just never had anybody they really wanted to vote for or at least for a long time, they didn't want to get out there.  They said, government takeover of healthcare that would raid Medicare and destroy the private health insurance plans of millions of American families that they love.  My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you.  The individual mandate is gone.  The most unpopular part of Obamacare, and we almost have Obamacare gone.  We're close.  We would have had it before, but we had a vote that was a little bit surprising.  I'm sure none of you knew who that vote was.  We had it done, repealed and of law enforcement.  A vote for Republicans is a vote for better schools, better jobs, safer families, and stronger communities for all Americans.  There is a limit to what we can together achieve with four more years.  With your help, we will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  That's what's happening, that's what's happening.  And that was happening at a level that nobody ever thought they'd see, it was happening before this COVID came in.  It was happening at a level that nobody believed storm.  "Okay, First Lady, don't worry about it.  The storm is big.  We have it taken care of, FEMA's down there, Florida, Alabama, Georgia.  We got FEMA down there.  It's being taken care of.  We always take care of it.  We take good care of it. " Texas, Louisiana.  We took good care of him two weeks ago.  "All right First Lady, don't worry about it.  It's the next story, I'm sure, it's the Nobel Prize for peace. " We're stopping mass killings between Kosovo and Serbia.  They've been tie, this would have no chance.  By the time you get finished, the straw is totally disintegrated.  Does anybody walk around with a plastic straw? Because it's that bad.  You whip it out, boom, boom.  You never had to do that.  When asked whether he would be willing to destroy the jobs of hundreds of thousands of blue collar workers to push his anti-energy agenda, you know what the answer is, right? It's the Green New Deal, right? This Green New Deal.  This was made up by people that don't get it.  Either vision from the bench that could never pass at the ballot box.  So, they don't want to show the judges because the only ones that he can put in are far left radicals.  If he does something even towards left of center, which would be acceptable, I guess, we have no choice.  If he did that, he would lose the left.  So, he's going to have to put in radicals.  So he doesn't want to show who his judges are.  I've shown a list, I have a double list, about 45 from which I economy anywhere in the world.  We're rebuilding that awesome might that we were just talking about.  Our United States armed forces.  America is working again.  America is winning again, and America is respected again, respected like never before.  They respect us again, and you see it.  You know, a recent poll came out where it showed that president Obama was more popular in Germany and other places than I am.  And I said, of course he's more popular.  He's not demanding that they pay for their protection that we provide.  He's that, ending the AIDS epidemic within 10 years that we've started.  We will defend privacy, free speech, religious Liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms, which is under seige.  By the way, our second amendment is under siege.  In Virginia, they want to take your guns away.  It's just the beginning.  Never going to happen as long as I'm President of the United States.  That I can tell you.  But above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America.  We support, the Italian vote.  Do we agree? But they protected it.  When asked at the debate if there would be any place for fossil fuels, including coal, and fracking, and natural gas, and so many things that really fire up these big plants where many of you work, and they produce just millions and millions of jobs throughout our country, Biden said, "No, we would absolutely not allow anything like that.  We would make sure it's totally eliminated. " That's what he said.  He said, "We would make sure it's totally eliminated or eliminated. " Now he's now you'll get a real job.  Okay? Steve, that audience wasn't big enough for you.  Their ratings aren't good.  With the help of everyone here tonight, we're taking power out of Washington and giving it back to the great people of our country, and to the people of New Mexico.  We've cut a record number of job-killing regulations, saving the average American household $3,000.  We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history.  What that means is a typical family of four in New Mexico making $75,000 has seen their here that had very good genes, too.  We have his son in the audience, too, but this is Representatives Pat Grassley.  Those genes, those two young men have the greatest genes anyone has ever had for politics.  Thank you, fellas, thanks.  I sent one of them, the father to China, and he's now Ambassador to China.  Do you think he is happy? Is he happy? I think so.  I think he is happy.  Great Governor, longest serving Governor in history, actually, 24 years.  We have the Chairman of the Republican Party of it's anything like these other events, it could go on forever.  I mean the congressional race which they just gave up and they declared her a winner which they should not have done, they should make that a do-over and I think in Paterson they have a do-over.  I think they're going to do it over because it was just ripe with fraud, theft.  People were selling ballots, people were selling ballots, and you know they talk about Russia.  They're so worried about Russia.  What about sending out 80 million ballots? That's your real problem, the circle and he's practicing the science.  Now it doesn't work out, but we're going to win four more years in the White House.  We're doing things that nobody's ever done before.  We're doing what nobody's ever done, and thank you for being here.  I wish we could move the press back further, if you want to know the truth.  As our nation mourns the loss of Supreme Court Justice … Thank you everybody.  Thank you.  So is our nation mourns the loss of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, I will soon to us in Europe.  And then we protect them.  Then they don't pay, and I say, "I'm sorry folks, you have to pay.  You have to pay. " They were delinquent, they were delinquent.  And my biggest fan is secretary General Stoltenberg from NATO.  He said until president Trump came along, we were going, boom.  They would've been finished very quickly, but I'm tired of paying for other nations anyway, I have to be honest with you.  Today, our nation is stronger than ever before.  We're now stronger than ever before.  you talk about these different places where a lot of bad stuff comes out, right? It's so big that it's right next to each other.  It's right next to each other.  Does that make sense? Right? It's right next to each other.  So, what are they going to do? We want to have the cleanest water and the cleanest air.  We will defend privacy.  We will defend free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and we will always defend your second amendment and we're doing it now.  And above all, we will never stop fighting That's not good in Mississippi, either.  I don't know it's that good anywhere.  Nah, he went back home to Texas, and hopefully we won't be hearing about him for a long time.  It's amazing how cold you could get so quickly, but he was a nasty guy.  But in the twist… Oh, Alabama.  Love Alabama.  I love Alabama.  I love Alabama.  It's a great place.  But in the very twisted and corrupt world of Adam Schiff, after beating the entire political establishment, and that means Bush and that means Clinton and to have to check it.  Because you know with the fake news, if I'm off by half a point.  If it's 117 and not 118, even if I go under, they report it.  They say, he didn't tell the truth.  It was really 119.  But like a lot, over 100, where we had the highest stock market in our history.  Think of that.  That's incredible.  But Matt Bevin has made record investments in education spending for Kentucky students.  Education is so important to him.  Matt Bevin will defend your Kentucky with what we're doing, I believe that this next quarter, which will be announced, interestingly, just prior to the election, so I'm putting myself on the line, but I know what's going to happen.  The numbers are going to be great.  And next year is going to be one of the greatest years not only for Pennsylvania, but for the entire country.  So Joe Hiden, we have a new one, Joe Hiden.  We call him Joe Hiden.  I have all.  What do you like better? What do you like better? We got a number. wrong? I can't watch Trump on television.  I can't watch our president.  Darling, we have a rolling blackout.  It'll only be a few hours.  I think we'll be on by two o'clock in the morning, darling, and we can watch a rerun.  Now, this is what's happening.  You have rolling blackouts.  You have, in some cases, just blackouts.  I don't even call them rolling.  Not going to happen to your state.  Last year, I visited the Shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, the largest investment in your state's history. it was one of the big things, one of the big reasons I decided to say to my great wife, our first lady, let's go have some fun.  Let's go have some fun.  She's done a great job and very popular.  And the family is all over the place, all over the country.  But unlike Joe, who lets you down when he'd never even came back to Milwaukee to apologize or just to pay respects, I came to Wisconsin and I've been here a lot since, since we started this, a lot.  And you've been trying to impose their will and to thwart American democracy by any means necessary.  You see what's going on.  First, they engineered the Russia hoax.  That was a total hoax, the single greatest lies ever foisted upon the American people.  Then the Mueller witch hunt, it never ended.  With 18 angry Democrats and an unlimited budget, let's go get him.  That didn't work out too well, did it? That fizzled.  And a lot of bad people along the way.  And now corrupt politicians, Nancy Pelosi- … and shifty Adam Schiff, Shifty.  they did it to everybody else.  And they raised a tariffs massively, they made it impossible.  They tried to take over that business too, along with all of them, it was just massive and horrible what they did.  And that really got me going, the little specialty milk, specialty products, a small portion, but you know what, that was it.  And we have a great deal.  The USMCA is a great deal and I'm very honored to have done it.  But it was all because of specialty milk and the way you were taken of things.  You're in offices.  You don't realize, because you don't know what's happening.  I know exactly a true story.  And then it's written to totally bend the truth, to make a good thing into a bad thing.  Like, can you believe it, in one week they nominated me, not for one, but for two Nobel prizes.  No, but think of it.  No but think.  And they didn't cover the story.  Now Obama got his the first week.  Very liberal group, and nobody knew what the hell he got it  And the woman involved said she didn't know anything.  But they still, so the New York Times had to put out a major apology, and they had to change their story.  The woman said, "I don't remember that. " Can you believe? And they still want him to be impeached.  And I just put out a statement.  And he's a great man, by the way, a great talent.  A great brilliant man, Brett Kavanaugh.  and I just put out a statement on social media that said, I don't think they'll do it, but make American wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you, Toledo.  Thank you. Thank you, thank you.  So we begin, Oklahoma, we begin.  Thank you, Oklahoma.  And thank you to Vice President Mike Pence.  We begin, we begin our campaign.  Thank you.  We begin our campaign and I just want to thank all of you, you are warriors.  I've been watching the fake news for weeks lifted 6. 6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction in the history of our country, by far.  We built the greatest economy in the history of the world.  And right now we're doing it again.  I see all these hats, Make America Great Again.  And now I'm going to say this, Make America Great Again, Again.  Make America Great Again, Again, Again.  We saved 1. 4 million jobs in Pennsylvania alone and to fight the China virus, it's the China virus, not the coronavirus.  Corona sounds like a place in that you have your best economy that you've ever had.  Forget the country for a second, you have the best economy you've ever had, you have your best unemployment numbers, you had the most people working than at any time in the history of your state, you have your best black unemployment numbers, best Hispanic unemployment numbers, best women unemployment numbers, best Asian unemployment numbers.  Whoever the opponent is, what are they going to do is just say, "North Carolina, I'm going to do a great job.  You have the best numbers in the history of our you think about it, it's not about fun.  It's about achievement.  Because what we've achieved in the last almost three years is unparalleled.  There's never been an administration that in the first two and a half years has done what we've been able to do or achieve.  In a few short weeks, we'll be up to 180, sounds impossible, federal judges including court of appeals judges.  Because President Obama did us a great favor when I came in, I said, "I assume I have no judges to appoint. " No sir, you have 138 judges. They said 62% of the people are lying about their poll.  Now, they're only lying having to do with my … And I don't know if I'm supposed to be insulted by that or not, but we'll take it.  But we could have a very big win.  And look, no president has done for Michigan what President Trump has done for Michigan.  And you're going to remember that.  And I'm going to remember Michigan.  Michigan GOP Chair Laura Cox.  Great.  Thank you.  Great job.  Great job.  Thank you.  and the other guy said, "What about me?" He's not too happy, her opponent.  You look at what happened in Paterson, New Jersey, you look at what happened in Virginia, you look at what happened … There's not a race, and these are small, these are easy to control.  they want to send out 80 million unsolicited, I like it much better, they used to say universal, they used to say live ballots, I like the word unsolicited, and solicited.  Solicited is okay, because that's when you're asking and you want it and you send in the have a Second Amendment.  But I want to just say, they do disinformation, they make up a phony story and then they go with it.  They make up a totally phony story.  It's called disinformation.  And one of the things, oh, what they did, the worst of all was the soldiers.  Because, nobody loves our soldiers like I do and they made up a phony deal.  And that's why I say the gloves are off because when they do that, that's worse than what I'm going to talk to you about, that's big 10. it's driving the fake news crazy.  They're back.  But the poll numbers have swung.  If you go back six months before the plague flew in from China, the plague, the horrible plague, this election was over.  This election was over.  And then I had to go back to work.  I had to go back to work.  And then I went back to work and we've done an incredible job in every aspect of running government, but I also had to start campaigning a little bit again, and I did.  And today it they say, "Look, if we're not treated fairly, we're gone. " All of a sudden, we're winning all these cases.  But we just won 7. 5 billion.  7. 5 billion.  Did you know that, Doug? 7. 5 billion.  But under this administration, the great betrayal is over.  America's no longer for sale.  America is no longer for sale.  Those days are over.  Two generations of politicians came and went promising to replace NAFTA.  How many times have you heard we're going to replace NAFTA? Probably the number one reason I ran He says, "No thank you. " And strong pioneer women who defied the dangers to carve out a life and a beautiful home with great families and great neighbors.  They tamed the wilderness, braved the elements, tilled the soil, planted the fields and help make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth and we are making it greater and greater every single day.  Proud citizens like you helped to build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people, where it up. " I said, "Tell me she didn't say that, please. " I just put out, that if she was set up, then she shouldn't be leading the House of Representatives.  I want the salon owner to lead the House of Representatives, because she set up … Think of it.  She set up the Speaker of the House.  That was a big mistake.  As soon as I heard, she said, "Well, she's sent me up," Nancy, you're not supposed to get set up.  You're representing our country.  You know what she should have done took an email… forged, forged an email used as evidence, an act which is now the subject of a criminal referral.  What they did is so unbelievable.  Oh, I look forward… I don't know.  I don't know, keep away.  I look forward to Bull Durham's report, that's the one I look forward to.  And this report was great by the IG, especially since he was appointed by President Barack Hussein Obama.  Considering that fact, it was great because we learned a lot of things that nobody would have found out variously, although I suspect been the best.  Think of this, go back one week and go back 50 days.  In that 50 day period, it's the strongest 50 days in the history of the stock market, think of it.  And your wife or your husband says, "Darling, I love you so much.  You are such a great investor. " And all you did is just keep the same crap you had the first time, right? "Darling, I love you so much.  You've always been a loser.  You've always lost money.  But now under President Trump, you're one The wall is going on.  It gets one of the biggest applause of anything, it's the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force.  We're opening up the Space Force because you know what, that's where it's at.  And everything's built right here in the United States.  That's simple.  And by the way, we build the greatest weapons, the greatest planes, the greatest ships, we build it in the United States, there's nobody that comes close.  We have the greatest military equipment anywhere in the world, rockets and missiles, no place don't know what they're doing.  They can't even count their votes.  We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many great leaders from across this state and this country, great national leaders.  I want to thank our tremendous Vice President, Mike Pence, who spoke earlier this evening.  And also with us, our warrior senators, the two people that wanted to be here.  They're going to be here tomorrow.  They're going to be here to get out the vote.  I don't think we have to worry too much about it, but that's okay… And very save all of the propellants.  All of the, really the most expensive parts.  They're able to save it by bringing it back right to where it took off.  Who would think they could do this? I never saw this before six months ago, but they're doing it now more and more.  They're saving a lot of the most important and expensive parts of rockets.  So we have a lot of rich guys paying us a lot of rent.  But we're also doing it ourselves.  To protect America's security.  I withdrew the United was in trouble when she said, "I don't remember doing that.  I don't remember. " She didn't remember.  Oh, okay.  Well, as long as you don't remember.  It's true.  It's true too.  It's true.  You know what, I used to stand back and I'd say, "Be quiet, please.  Don't say that.  It's really not nice. " You know it's true.  She deleted 33… Think of it.  They'll never find the emails because they were acid washed, deleted.  But you know what? She got a subpoena from the United deal, but I don't care.  But it shows you how smart they are, Doug.  Another with normal brain power, they'd say, "Well, I'm not going to buy any more corn. " That's good.  And we'll just decouple, thank you very much.  But they go the opposite.  They buy so much, good record numbers, soybeans record numbers.  Last week, biggest ever, 42% of our farmers crop is now China, over the last little while.  You know why? Because they don't want bad things to happen, that's why.  So they're very smart.  When case of Turkey, and Syria, and the Kurds, we could send in a thousand troops for a military conflict with Turkey.  No, you don't want to do that.  We could hit Turkey very hard financially.  Or we could mediate a deal between Turkey and the Kurds.  I like that.  You know? Let's mediate a deal.  But remember they've been fighting each other for hundreds of years, and we were artificially put there, in this case by President Obama.  So we did our job.  We knocked out.  And I'll tell you another say, "General. " Now you got to understand, I have the whole corps of cadets looking at me and I want them to love their president, I did this big thing.  I love them, I love them.  They're incredible, and they do.  I said, "General, I've got myself a problem, general. " Because I'm wearing leather bottom shoes which is good if you're walking on flat surfaces.  It's not good for ramps and if I fall down, look at all those press back there, look at them.  This was a steel ramp, you all saw it.  "We did every possible thing wrong.  60 million Americans got H1N1 in that period of time.  And it was just a total disaster. " He basically said, "We didn't know what the hell we were doing. " And this is the guy that's going to tell us what to do with something that's much more lethal, much more lethal.  This is much more lethal than the swine flu.  If H1N1 had the same fatality rate as the China virus, over two million people would have already perished.  They didn't know what the hell we were stupid.  They respect us again.  They do.  I mean, look at Israel, look what we did.  I saw Kerry this other day.  Is this guy the worst negotiator? Gave Iran 150 billion, plus 1. 8 billion in cash.  He never walked.  Sometimes in a negotiation, when you've given everything, and you can't give anymore, and then they want more, you get up ane walk.  Remember the bicycle accident? That was the only time he had to ride his bicycle in a race.  73 years old.  "I promise," I how much was it, last year and the year before? Tell me. " It was $12 billion and it was $16 billion, and out of the tariffs that we've taken in, we gave to our farmers for distribution, hopefully very good distribution, hopefully very even distribution, we've given them $28 billion so that they're whole.  So that they're whole.  Nobody would ever do that.  Nobody would ever do that, I can tell you that right now, and our farmers know we have to fight.  I see it all the time, where some of the networks that everything. " When I came they wanted to close everything.  So I was president-elect I think right around at that time.  And I went to Lima and went through the factory where they make these trucks, the plant.  And they make the tanks.  They make all of these Army vehicle.  And I said, "These people are amazing.  You could never close this.  You could never re-open it again. " They'd been doing this for many many decades and this factory was incredible.  And I looked at the tanks they made.  They're Quite easy.  I think we're going to do even better now, because remember, number one in the history of your state last year, and that's because of what we did, we stopped the dumping.  We saved your stell.  So many different things, but Pennsylvania is the home of American energy.  Think of it that way.  This has taken place over a very short period of time.  Also, the birthplace of a thing called the American constitution.  Right? American constitution.  To uphold our constitution as written as opposed to as conceived by some us back our life," because they took it away from him.  We gave it back.  Best iron ore there is anywhere.  My administration is also fighting the Democrat socialist healthcare agenda that would obliterate Medicare.  Republicans will protect Medicare, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.  And for those of you that have private healthcare, health insurance, 180 million people, they are going to end it, obliterate it, and most people are thrilled with it.  We are going to leave it.  You're going to have your plan the way you want talking about them in a minute.  But for the entire summer, Biden was silent as far left rioters viciously attacked law enforcement in Democrat run cities all, burned down businesses, terrorized civilians, and just recently marched through the streets chanting, "Death to America. " This is what we have.  Death to America.  And by the way, we could end it like immediately.  You saw what we did in Wisconsin.  It ended.  It took a while for the governor.  You know, they have to ask us in.  It's like, otherwise we have to beauty.  I watched the Democrat debates, right? I watched them up there and he was so bad.  I said, "There's no way he makes it. " It's sad, isn't it? The first lady actually came in and one time she watched it and she goes, and she's a nice person.  She meant this really, me, I view it differently.  But she looked at, she watched the debate and she watched Joe and she said, "Darling, it's so sad. " This was early on.  This is the guy I'm running against.  It's so sad.  to your dad.  "Dad, Come on dad.  Can't you see I'm playing with my computer?" The guy talks to me and he's working with his computer.  These guys are genius.  You know, they grow up with like walking, right? But he's looking at me.  I could have given him their healthcare site.  He would have done it for nothing and it would have been better than what they have.  So remember, come on, dad.  I'm busy, dad.  What do you want? What do you want, dad? Barron, woah.  Wow, he's depleted military.  Now we have the newest, we have the best we've ever had and launched the first new branch of the United States Armed Forces in nearly 75 years, the US Space Force.  And we did things that people said couldn't be done.  After 52 years, we passed VA Choice in VA Accountability and 91% of our veterans now approve of their VA care.  They think it's doing great.  The fact is I did more in 47 months as president than Joe Biden did in 47 years.  It's true.  It's true.  place.  And I said, "You got to knock it out. " We knocked it out of Syria, and, Iraq and other places.  We really knocked at 100%.  Remember I wanted to leave.  I said, "All right. " We were at 96%, then 98, then 99%.  I said, "Let some of these other countries do it. " Wouldn't you say, right? So what happened is I wanted to leave and they said, "No, no, no, we want 100%. " So we wait and stayed.  We got 100%, then we moved them all out of Syria, Please, doctor, please.  Thank you very much.  Take your time.  Yeah, take your time.  Thank you.  Take your time, fellas.  Plenty of time.  You know, people got here two and a half days ago, many of these people in the front, right? Two and a half days ago, a lot of these people, so you can understand.  It's pretty tough.  Thank you.  Thank you.  That's okay.  These are great people.  These are great people that love our country, just remember that.  Thank you very much.  call it a protest, you're allowed to have it.  It's okay.  So if anybody asks you outside, this is called a friendly protest, okay? It's true.  You can't have political rallies.  That's because of me, because if Biden were here, he'd have about three people.  Do you ever see him with his little circles? The circle? You know why he puts the circles? Because he wants to be like correct with COVID, but it's not really because they can't get anybody to fill up a room.  So they put these big circles.  So We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again and we will make America great again.  Thank you, Iowa.  Thank you.  Thank you. What a crowd, what a crowd.  Get those people over here.  See me.  Let them come over.  What is a big crowd, it's always big.  We want to win.  We got to win.  We want to save our country from the radical left, the radical left crazies.  Thank you very much.  And hello, North hospital, oh, gee, fix you up.  Oh, great.  Then you get a bill for $2,000 for a band-aid.  We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, which I've already signed and brilliantly starts on January 1st.  Hey, you better vote for me.  You know, I think that's, in a way, bigger than healthcare.  Can you imagine Biden if he won? Price transparency is so big, it's all done, it starts on January 1st.  How smart is that? How smart.  And you're going to see numbers and reductions like you've never seen. lost.  We did a good thing.  That was in January, I imposed it, very early.  A month later, Pelosi and all these people said, "Oh no, let people come in.  We can't. " We imposed it because China was heavily infected.  Then I imposed it in Europe also, heavily infected with Italy and France and Spain.  Compare our achievements with the insane and lethal policies that Biden and Bernie Sanders want.  The entire Biden… Harris.  How about her? Is she a great one? Is she? By the way, you talk about guns. your paperwork was no good. " But we're going to be refiling, but don't let it get you.  Everything's going to work out really good.  Everything's going to work out good.  It was a great, it was great.  I mean, would have been nice if we won.  And Everybody said, "Oh, you're going to win DACA.  You're going to win DACA.  That's easy.  You got to win DACA.  That's easy. " They all said it.  And they came back and they said, "We don't like what you did with your convention center, the most beautiful stage I've ever seen.  And they knew something was going on because they didn't pay the final payment for the fireworks two weeks before.  Right? In fact, I went to the fireworks company, and I said, "I'll give you five cents on the dollar for your fireworks," even though they were no way near where my area was.  We were at a hotel in Midtown.  We liked the location better than where she chose, but they built the most … we remember that beautiful stage.  It was shaped like the about ever hearing that name again.  Abraham Lincoln, you could forget about it.  They want to take down all statues, all monuments in Washington.  We have some of your greatest people right here.  Let me not even talk to the congressmen.  The heck with the Congressman, the boiler makers.  How do you like? How do you like the idea of taking down our statues to our great George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, Andrew Jackson, all of them? I don't think the boiler makers.  You'll do a ring around Washington right? Along with think 60,000. " Another one said 101,000.  Another one said 125.  Another one was 118.  And then the number came out, 225,000.  Pretty good.  Pretty good.  We have destroyed the ISIS caliphate.  We killed the founder and leader of ISIS.  Al-Baghdadi is dead.  Al-Baghdadi is dead, and we just took out the world's top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever.  The fact is, America is respected again.  It's been a long time.  But as we keep on winning, Washington democrats keep on losing their don't know what they're doing, where they allow crime to run rampant.  And we put a 10 year prison sentence at anybody that knocks down a statue.  I took out an old ordinance, a very old one, because today in Congress, you don't get things like that today.  They think that you should just have no cash bail.  They do the no cash bail.  You kill somebody.  There's no bail.  Don't worry about it.  Go out.  But I took out an old ordinance.  I gave a new executive order.  don't let you do your job most importantly? Because if they let you do what you do better than anybody else in the world, you wouldn't have problems.  These are other police departments.  You look at Seattle.  We said we're going in, and they immediately said, "We'll put up our hands. " It was so easy.  We were going in the following day.  You look at Portland.  How about Portland? It's like an anarchist's dream.  We're dealing with the governor, because you know, I hate to say it, but they're all Democrat-run cities ought to do.  So now they're talking about, "Well, we want to …" Why did they call it a friendly protest? Right? Remember the idiot from CNN, he's standing there.  This is a friendly protest.  Behind him over his shoulders, the entire city is burning down.  Sixty seven days from now, we're going to win the great state of New Hampshire.  We have to.  We're going to win four more years in the White House.  Within my first term in office, we've secured America's borders, brought back our manufacturing jobs, rebuilt the United or suburb will be safe.  On November 3rd, your vote will save America.  Remember, it's the most important election we've ever had.  I'm joined tonight by some great warriors that have really helped me a lot in Washington with the fake impeachment, the impeachment hoax, the Russia, Russia, Russia hoax.  Somebody said Russia's coming up again.  Adam Schiff said, "We'd like to find out about" … I said, "What about China? What about other countries?" It's always Russia.  Russia, Russia.  They're at it again.  I want to just thank these guys because years ago, the coast guard, US Coast Guard.  I think there's no brand to me, that's gone up more than the US Coast Guard.  So it's great that we're getting them new ships.  Those ships are all coming in.  Nice new ones, all built in the USA, beautiful ones.  Most of them have already arrived.  My administration will be by their side through every step.  We're working again, very, very hard in the Panhandle.  The Panhandle, we love the Panhandle.  It got hit hard.  We spent the last four years the money we wanted.  I made a mistake.  I made a big mistake.  Now we're building the wall.  It's going up and it's going up rapidly and very soon we'll be building about a mile a day.  And we should be up to over 400 miles by next year, the end of next year, and shortly thereafter it'll be finished.  And it's already having a tremendous impact on people not being able to come into our country.  Bernie and the radical left cannot protect your family and they cannot protect our country, nor military has ever even conceived of, things that people have no idea what we have, and let's keep it that way.  We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency already signed, further reduce health insurance premiums, and the cost of prescription drugs will be dropping like a rock very soon.  The drug companies do not like me too much.  It's a favored nations clause I signed.  We will strongly protect Medicare, and your Social Security will be totally secure.  And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.  America will land the first they said, "We're safer on the field than we are staying at home," and they meant it.  And we did something and I'm happy about it.  So enjoy the football, enjoy it.  Under 16 years of Presidents Obama and Bush, median household income rose only $2,945.  So remember that.  That's 16 years, 2009, so let's say 3000.  Under three years of President Trump, it rose almost $7,000.  So think of that, 16 years.  Three years, achieving the highest median income in the history of our country.  In my first three years, That's more money than this country could earn in 1,000 years to do it right.  " We don't like that building, the windows are too large. " "Okay, let's rip it down and build a new one. " What windows are you going to have? You're not going to have windows anymore.  Environmental.  They love wind too, right? The big windmills, I always say, the greatest graveyard in the world for birds, just walk under a windmill.  You will see more dead birds than you will ever imagine, what's happening, including eagles.  You know, in had no choice, and hope to God we never have to use it, because if you would ever see the power of what we've done over the last three years, it's almost better for you not to see it.  We are the envy of every power, every country in the world.  We have weapons that nobody ever even thought possible.  And just as I said, hope to God we never have to use them.  And the way we don't have to use them is to keep that kind of strength.  Nobody's going to be talking enough, frankly.  So there's something going on.  And I always say, 2016, I don't know if there'll ever be another 2016.  But right now it's like a great tree or a great plant, you plant it and it has to take hold.  We have to win 2020.  We're doing so well.  We have to win 2020.  And every day, and you know as well as I do, we're battling against the corrupt establishment of the past, and we're achieving historic victories for the American people.  We're winning again.  We're winning again, a break.  $83,000 a month.  More than anybody.  If Joe Biden were to become president an emboldened left, will launch a full scale assault on American life.  You know that.  They'll expel anyone who disagrees with them.  Look what happens when you disagree.  You use a term that's perfect and they're not happy with it.  They call you a racist.  They call you a horrible person.  They want to crush religious liberty.  They don't want religion.  Silence religious believers, indoctrinate your children with hateful and vicious lies about you saw the numbers today were down approximately 57%.  But our country could fix it so easy if the Democrats would sit with me for 15 minutes, but they don't want to do that because they want to have open borders.  They want to have drugs pouring into our country.  You have to have a wall and you have to stop it, and when you look at what's happening with human trafficking, and it's mostly women, they traffic in women and they pour through our borders.  Well, every inch of wall that we put up is one that treated him so badly.  And she treated Kavanaugh very badly too.  Nobody was ever ruder, nobody ever suffered, like Justice Kavanaugh suffered in the hands and the mouths of those horrible people.  The way he was tortured was disgraced.  And they had nothing.  Those women, that was all made up.  Most of them have already admitted, it was all made up lies, false accusations, and they made him suffer.  And the leader of the pack I would say was, Kamala was the worst, and Pocahontas was a close second.  How's about … It would've been unacceptable, unsustainable.  It would've been so bad.  Think of it.  We're at 180,000.  Other countries are doing terribly.  Did you see the statistics of us compared to other countries? Us compared to Europe? We have done an incredible job.  We get absolutely no credit for the job we've done.  And I don't want it myself, but I want it for the admirals and the generals and Mike Pence.  And Joe Biden was against it.  Remember? He was totally against closing.  He said, "Oh, he's xenophobic. and Release, you know what Catch and Release is? You catch a criminal, you take the number, and you release him into the, they would never come back.  We say, come back please in three years, this is a Democrat deal.  Come back if you don't mind, in three years.  We release them into our country.  We totally ended it through a very, very slick group of rules.  Catch and Release.  May we please have your address and your phone number? "Here it is!" "What have you done?" "I got out of jail. " out to vote.  Instead, we watched her concession speech.  Crooked Hillary, that was a real piece of work.  Remember when she was saying, "Will you accept the decision of the voters? Will you accept that decision?" I wasn't perfect, I said I'll see how it works out.  I should have said, "Yes, I will," but I couldn't do that because I know how crooked she is.  Would you accept the decision? The anchor said to me like, "Will you accept?" They're coming after me, I said, "You're supposed to be going after her a little West Point, West Point, we're ready. " I said, "Oh, that's right.  I have to make the commencement speech at West Point. " Just to show you how bad the fake news is, so they say to me, "Sir, we're ready to go. " I say, "Let's go. " This is after saying hello to a lot of cadets, inspecting little areas of a building, that was very exciting.  Actually, it's beautiful, very old.  Studied a lot of our great generals, some of our presidents that went there.  West Point is beautiful, right on the Hudson Steyer? You jerk.  I never even heard of him.  I never even heard of him.  I turn on every time… For years, I'm turning on… Impeach him.  They don't even know why.  They never say why.  They don't have any reason.  Impeach the president.  This guy spent a fortune on this stuff, so it worked out pretty good.  But anyway, so then I go and I look.  It has Mini Mike's… Question marks.  I can give you the answer, but right now they have to have a question mark, more.  What happened is when I suggested they should put up a lot of money everybody said, senators, congressmen, women, everybody.  They said, "You can't do that.  That's never been done. " That's the problem, nothing's ever been done.  And we had other companies, a lot of people wanted it.  And I said, "You got to put up $5 million either to the Treasury of the United States maybe or into some education fund or do something. " And they were sort of agreeing with me.  They thought it was okay.  And then of California promised a Rolls-Royce to illegal immigrants.  He didn't promise them.  This was a lie and a misrepresentation by President Trump. " They can't take a little humor.  They can't take it.  These people are sick.  They're sick.  No.  They're sick people.  Them and Shifty Schiff is a very sick person.  He lies awake at night shifting and turning, Shifty.  Shifting and turning in his bed, sweating like a dog.  "How am I going to get him? He didn't do anything wrong, how am I going to get have some bad ones here tonight.  They have some really bad ones, some really sick ones.  They have one good one, by the way, one good one.  They have one good one, a bunch of bad ones.  Very, very dishonest people and we have some great ones, too.  We have some great journalists, great reporters.  But you've got a tremendous amount of dishonest media people like I have never seen in my life before.  They write things that they know are wrong.  They write, if you watched for the last three years, support.  The head of the Republican party, little things like that.  I said, "We don't have a head of the Republican party.  He left because you had a terrible governor in this state. " Terrible.  Your previous governor was terrible.  He was terrible.  I'll tell you, I got this man.  I didn't know him.  Within about a week, I said, "Man, this guy's a big optimist. " And he was right.  He called it right to the thing.  He ran my campaign.  When he came back for the second won't say it because it's a Harrell, it's a terrible word.  So I will not say that this guy said, if we didn't have the bullshit, that's all.  No, no.  Could you imagine if we didn't have the time wasted the time and everything.  Can you imagine? And you know a friend of mine said maybe you wouldn't have done as well.  Is that possible? That can happen.  Maybe we would have had too much time on our hands.  Who knows? But I can say, nobody in their first two and a half  They're all coming back.  But Beshear wants to shut down your coal, shut down your energy, raise your taxes, and take a giant wrecking ball to the greatest economy in the history of the state of Kentucky.  The greatest economy you've ever had, he's going to destroy it.  And it won't be long.  It'll go very quickly.  You know, you're all sitting there.  Everybody has good jobs.  You don't like it, you go find another job.  It's like the choice I got from military.  I got you choice too.  very good, but think how important it is.  Think how important it is.  And we still, I guess it's a, I don't know if it's an equal court, it's almost like we're a minority court, right? It's almost like we're a minority court.  The recent Supreme Court cases prove that if Joe Biden is elected, he will stack the court with extremists, the forgotten men and women, together with everyone else.  We'll lose everything.  The forgotten men and women, I campaigned on the forgotten.  These are great people.  These are substantial people.  a brand new one.  I say, "What do we have?" 31 years, and we're protecting them.  Why the hell don't we have a new one? So they finally had, at 31 years old.  The new one is totally different, 747.  It's much longer, bigger wingspan, much more beautiful.  It's modern, it's beautiful.  5. 7 billion.  So I said to the head of Boeing, nice guy, Dennis, this was before they had their difficulty, which is terrible what happened to them, but I said to him, "Dennis, I'm not going to spend $5. 7 proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words and phrase.  I love the phrase, Made in the USA.  Made in the USA.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within now nine years.  We started a year ago.  Can you imagine that? We're doing that, and it's going to happen.  Who would have thought we could have done that? We will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant our flag  They view me as being somebody that's, I go around, hey, last week, this week, Texas, North Carolina, Florida, South Carolina, back to Washington.  Let's go here, let's go there, let's go everywhere.  Meetings all the time.  I think I've answered more questions from these maniacs than any president in history.  And mean questions.  I watched Biden yesterday, so he hasn't answered questions in what, two months or something.  And yesterday he took a couple and they were set ups like I've never seen.  One young woman who I think is there, people, much more that couldn't get in.  We'd have 40,000, 50,000 people outside and they'd say I was even.  We won in a landslide, just like we won this state, in a landslide.  You know the expression they use, "Texas is in play. " You know what "in play" means? It could go either way.  And guys would get on there and say, "I don't think so. " And then that night again, "The polls in Texas have closed.  Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas. " I mean, the whole thing is and thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you.  Thank you, folks.  Vote for these people.  Even if you don't like them, vote for them.  Oh, that's a beautiful new hat.  Look at the hat that guy's got on.  How's that hat working out? Is that good? I love that hat.  Look at this guy, that says Keep America Great.  Should we do the poll? Should we do a poll? Okay, ready? So we have the greatest phrase in the history of politics, Make America Great if you knock down a monument. " I said, "General, let me see that sucker, please.  Bring that to my office. " And we revived it because you can't get that approved by Congress.  They would never.  Today in Congress, you'd do it, they'll give you half a day in a hotel someplace.  So 10 years.  So they were having a big march on Washington in two days and I signed this new law.  We updated it, and it was 10 years.  You get 10 years in prison.  You touch, you knock drones.  Watch the people pour in by the thousands.  That's great.  Use drones.  Before I came along, they all wanted a wall.  They just didn't know how to build it.  They had no clue.  They had the money, they actually gave the money back, but they had no clue.  But as soon as I came in and I said, "Wall," they went against and I made a terrible mistake.  We catch them.  You know the story.  They come over, could be a killer, murderer, rapist.  They come over. the Democrats are having their convention, their national convention, they just gave out a tremendous contract.  You know what it's for? They're building a big wall around the building, they're building a big wall.  A massive wall.  We should tell them, open borders.  Let anybody come in.  And a few years ago, almost every one of these, they're on tape.  That's the problem with politics.  Three years ago, they could say, look, I saw Senator Schumer, I saw Nancy… I saw all of them.  They said, "No, we need a wall.  He couldn't get elected dogcatcher in Utah right now.  Remember Utah, they said it's too close to call, this was before the election, and they announced Utah, the polls are closed, Donald Trump has won the state of Utah.  Do you remember that like immediately? I won by a lot and there was some guy running, McMuffin, McMuffin.  McMuffin, he was supposed to be second.  Even Hillary beat him.  What a group.  Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest, Dan? Get out and vote for him.  Get out and vote for him, okay? I'll tell you ones that we just bought like that, but I make this speech.  I salute for probably an hour and a half, maybe more, but around that.  Watch.  If I'm off by two minutes they'll say, "He exaggerated.  It was only an hour and 25 minutes.  He exaggerated, he lied, he lied, he's a liar. " These people are sick, the fake news.  So then I finish saluting my final salute, I said, "Thank goodness.  Thank you very much. " Think of it.  So essentially almost 600 times.  Now the general says, the USA? Go ahead.  Wait, ready? You want made in America then made in the USA.  What do you like better, made in America, made in the USA? Okay, I think we know that answer.  So in 2016 we had in my opinion the greatest phrase in the history of politics, make America great again.  Now we are within moments hopefully of having, despite what you heard a few weeks ago, where we were heading.  And they're going, "Please, please let there be a recession, please. " They're willing to give up their results because I mean we're getting crowds, 25-30,000 people, and then there'll be 20,000 people outside.  We set up screens outside, and if anybody would like to stand in the rain watching.  And do you people out there, I'm sorry, it's pretty rough.  But no, there's never been anything like it.  One instruction get me the biggest arena you can get.  We don't have empty seats.  I mean look at this.  How many seats is this? 11,000? How much? 10,500, it's packed.  It's beyond that.  And don't forget, look at the floor, and we're here for a number of reasons, but we're here because we really think we're going to turn this state and make it a Republican state.  Yesterday marked the beginning of the Hispanic Heritage Month.  Who is Hispanic here? Latinos for Trump.  Thank you.  Incredible people.  But we have much to celebrate.  Unbelievable when you think, the unemployment for Hispanic-Americans is right now at the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country.  Hispanic-American poverty reached a brand new all-time low in history.  And after years of stagnation that you they didn't use it and I sent up a ship, a great hospital ship, a massive hospital with hundreds and hundreds of rooms and they didn't use it and he requested it and then I said, "You're not using it.  Why aren't you using it?" He could have put those people in the convention center in the hospital ship.  What a shame how long can you do this for? Restaurant, poor guys.  You can't, how long can you do this for? The people are going to lose their jobs.  They're never going to open again.  I don't want to say it.  I'm just saying, they have not been able to find in the history of politics in this nation, even we loved Ronald Reagan, but they have not been able to find where people broke out and said, "We love you," about, I guess I have to call myself a politician.  I don't feel like a politician.  How nice is that? I never heard it.  I've been to a lot of different speeches and rallies.  I've never heard crowds go, "We love you. " But you know why? We love And maybe as I said, much sooner than that.  Joe Biden's plan to impose a blanket shutdown would collapse our economy and cause countless deaths from suicide, drugs, alcohol abuse, heart disease, and much more.  And that's what you're in right now.  You're in a shutdown.  It's crazy.  I've been to many states, they're not in shutdowns and they're doing better.  They're doing better.  Somebody's got to speak to this man, Dan.  Maybe you got to talk to him, Dan.  Go in a little early and say, "You don't know what they were doing.  And the guy admitted it.  That guy can not be very popular in Democrat politics right there.  But just to remember, and he's telling us how to do things.  We're building ventilators, we're the ventilator capital of the world now, think of it.  We're sending them to other countries, we have so many.  And we have made a lot of Governors look very good.  And they all admit it, until the press comes in front, where they say, "Oh, he was okay," but we took care of them.  We America, and I'll bring rioters, looters, violent extremists, anarchists, we will bring them to justice.  That's what we're doing right now.  We have over 400 right now under arrest.  These are bad people.  Over the last three and a half years, we've secured America's borders, fixed our broken trade deals, rebuilt the United States military, obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100%, secured American energy independence, and built the single greatest economy in the history of the world, and now we're going to do it again.  Have to do it again.  Have to do it again. think your state is into that.  Unlike Biden, I'll always stand with the heroes of law enforcement.  And I'm deeply honored to have gotten all of those endorsements.  That to me is a really big deal.  That to me is really a big deal.  And I just want to thank all of them, including the National Troopers Association and Coalition just came in.  We also received the endorsement, total and complete endorsement from the Public Safety Alliance of Nevada, and the Las Vegas Police Protective Association from Nevada.  And I want to thank will never, ever let you down, that I can tell you.  Amazing.  And I want to thank Manchester and New Hampshire, they're very special.  You remember those primaries? That primary came around and remember what happened during the primary? Trump should come in third or fourth, and we came in easily number one, and that was the beginning.  That was an easy one.  I want to thank you all.  This is incredible and it's great to be back in a state that I love with thousands of hardworking Patriots, who are the heart and $10,000, that includes what we've done in terms of median income.  I'm adding in there the tax cuts, which are tremendous, $2,400.  I'm adding the regulation cuts, I'm adding the whole package over $10,000.  Now, under President Bush, it was $450.  Under Barack Hussein Obama, it was $975.  Under President Donald J.  Trump, it's $10,000 in three years, three.  In three years.  Don't forget, President Bush, eight years, $450.  President Obama, eight years, $975.  President Trump, three years, not even, not even, not even, but three years, $10,000.  We're  In October of last year, US Special Operations Forces executed a daring nighttime raid that killed the bloodthirsty founder and leader of ISIS.  The animal known as al- Baghdadi is dead.  And the entire ISIS caliphate is destroyed, and his terrorist empire, and he was indeed a monster, has been totally demolished.  We killed thousands and thousands of ISIS warriors, fighters, and we have thousands of them right now locked up where they should be.  Nobody has ever done what we've done in three years.  And I'll say this, when we took it over, The turnout was beyond belief.  And instead of being down by 17 points, he easily won the election 4,000 or 5,000 votes.  Dan, thank you, Dan.  Thank you, Dan Bishop.  And Greg Murphy was up a couple of points, and he ended up winning, I don't know, I'd ask the media, but they won't give me how many … What did he get? Do you know? Like 20, 21? He won by a lot.  He won by a lot.  I'd asked them, but we're not going to get a straight answer.  They were got to know him.  And he's been so important, he's the King, 39 million listeners.  There's nobody like him.  Try sitting down for what is it? Three hours? And talking, just talking with everyone.  39 million people, often.  Try sitting.  We love Rush.  I love Rush.  But listen, try sitting down with a radio show with millions and millions of people listening, and talk for three hours without phone calls.  Phone calls are easy.  Hey, what do you think of this? What do you think.  Just talk.  Talk. had anything like it.  And of course they also have a place called Portland and we will put that fire out.  Just tell us to put it out, governor.  That fire we'll put out.  That's a much easier fire to put out.  It would take us less than a half an hour.  We've spent the last four years reversing the damage done by Joe Biden and all of the damage that him and his thought process has inflicted over a 47-year period.  We passed record-setting tax cuts and record-setting regulation cuts.  We We can't do that.  It's a tremendous incentive to come in.  Democrats also want to bring in unlimited numbers of foreign refugees from overseas, all at the expense of supporting their own communities.  Republicans, no matter what you do, where you are, we want people to obey our laws.  You want people that are going to help our country.  The Democrat party has never been farther outside of the mainstream.  Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would raid Medicare, force private doctors out of medicine, and to close.  I said, "You can't close this plant. " And now look, the numbers I just gave you.  We're making almost 500 new tanks.  You could've never reopened a place like that.  It's incredible.  And you could've never gotten those workers.  They're really skilled people and if you did it would cost you billions and billions of dollars to do it.  It wouldn't have been as good as we have.  So that was something I did that I'm very proud of because I really over-rode a lot of talented people that Trump derangement syndrome.  But if they ever did a conservative broadcast, meaning very fair, very honest When I say that, it's almost like do a fair broadcast.  Just a fair broadcast.  That thing would be the hottest show.  But they don't realize it.  And if they do, they probably wouldn't do it anyway because they don't want to go away from what they're doing, which is crazy because it is, they're doing very poorly.  While the social and socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare and your Social Security, they're putting it at brand new Coast Guard cutters.  We had to do it, we had to do it.  There's always time for the other but we had to do it.  We've rebuilt our military, we've taken care of the great people that work in our military.  We gave them a raise, a beautiful raise they were so entitled to.  And I also got other NATO members to pay an additional 100 billion dollars over the last year and a half that they weren't paying, they were delinquent.  We're supposed to protect them and they don't pay, I  We want to rip down Abraham Lincoln.  It got to Lincoln.  First, it was not too many people heard of him.  Confederate soldiers, et cetera.  You say, "Hey, look, do it through a process. " But they started hitting Lincoln.  Then they hit Gandhi.  Now Gandhi was about peace.  Gandhi just wanted peace.  Leave me alone.  Peace, peace, peace.  Let's rip them down.  They're sick people.  The Democrat party's war on cops has already led to a surge in vicious murders in Democrat control cities costing countless started chanting, "We love you.  We love you.  We love you. " And it's incredible, they said with all the years that they've been covering presidential elections, they've never heard that chant that, "We love you. " No, it's very nice.  No, they've never heard it.  True.  Now they'll say, "He misrepresented.  18 years ago, there was a rally held by somebody, and we heard the words from two people that, ‘We love you, sir. '" Now this is what we're dealing with.  And by the way, I look out, there's a lot Mueller family on television.  You saw that at the convention, what al-Baghdadi did with their beautiful daughter, and incredible how our troops handled that.  You should see it, it was incredible.  Biden also cheered the rise of China as a positive development, positive development for America and for the world.  How are we doing with China? We just have the plague, we've had other plagues sent by them.  I wonder if they did it on purpose, what do you think? I got to tell you, I was sailing to an easy election.  This was tax bill reduced by more than $2,000.  And it's one of the reasons that as the world is not doing great, you look at Europe, and you look at Asia, and China's not doing too well.  I must be honest with you, worst year in 57 years, I'd say that's not good.  But I hope they still like me.  And we've taken in tens of billions of dollars worth of tariffs, and we've given those tariffs, and by the way, China's eating the tariffs, they're devaluing their currency, the prices are very similar.  They're eating the estate tax was massive.  They'd put big mortgages on the farm, they'd lose the farm, they'd lose the business.  You don't have that anymore.  I saved the US auto industry by withdrawing from the last administration's job-killing catastrophe, the Trans-Pacific Partnership was a disaster.  For half a century, Joe Biden shook hands with blue collar workers, and then he turned around and immediately stabbed them in the back.  Biden supported NAFTA, China's entry into the World Trade Organization, TPP, the South Korea disaster deal and mass amnesty for illegal aliens.  Think of it. lean and mean staff.  But Corey Lewandowski loves your state, loves New Hampshire.  He was the first one that talked about us possibly winning the whole big ballgame.  He's tough and he's smart and I'm hearing he's thinking about running for the Senate from New Hampshire.  There we go.  I think he'd be tough to beat.  I'll tell you one thing, he'll go into Washington and he's going to have you in mind.  He's going to do a job if he does do it, so we'll see what happens.  He hasn't made It's not a good platform, but you have people that want to shut down the oil industry.  If you do that, you're going to shut down half your businesses.  It's really more than that, and the rest of them are not going to be able to pay because the cost of this energy would be so expensive.  We have all forms of energy.  We have every form of energy, and we are doing great, but they want to cripple your state's economy.  The voters of Ohio will never let that happen, never going to let in the wrong direction, and now we are turning it around, it is going better than ever before and we going to keep it that way.  We're going to keep it that way.  With your help, with your devotion, with your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning.  We are one movement, one movement, think of that, we are one big beautiful movement.  There has never been a movement like this, you don't hear it that often.  They know justice under the law for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed.  I won't be putting forth a nominee next week.  It will be a woman.  It will be a woman unless, wait, okay, let's do a poll.  Oh, there they are.  How many of these have you come to? Speaking of women, how many of, what is this number one? Like 90, they're great.  North Carolina, though.  I see them all over the place, they're great.  Anyway, I hope your husbands are okay with it.  Are they okay? They're swine flu, right, it was a catastrophe.  And, the man that headed up the swine flu, I won't use his name because I'd like to have him have a nice evening, because I can't imagine the democrats are thrilled.  He said, "It was a horrible job, we had no idea what we were doing, it was a disaster. " He said, "It was a disaster. " And now, Biden's telling us how to do what we're doing so well on, what other countries are calling me and congratulating me on the incredible job.  And I got sleepy, he lied about this. " Every single family is going to be given a brand new Silver Cloud Rolls Royce.  Now, I said that, and CNN went, "He lied about the fact that they're not getting a Rolls Royce. " Remember what I said? " Russia, if you're listening," in front of this message, "Russia, if you're listening, find out where her e-mails," or whatever.  And then, everybody laughed, I laughed.  Well, they actually play it all the time.  "When he spoke to Russia. " Do you ever see it? And they cut it off before bet on the numbers, even though Crazy Nancy and these people don't want to give any stimulus, they don't want to give anything.  They want to keep a lot of states closed wherever they can.  You know what they're going to do? They're going to announce they're going to be opening on November 4th.  There'll be open.  All these closed states, they're going to be open on November 4th.  One of them blue and a teacher's union.  Did you see it? "No, we don't want to open now.  We don't want to open. people are throwing bottles at him, he's being hit with tear gas.  This is a friendly protest.  And you look over his shoulder and the entire city was burning.  Do you remember the scene? The thing looked like it was 30 blocks, it was just burning.  And he's talking about, this is all fake news and nobody would have known.  I knew it before I did it, but I never knew it to this extent.  I never knew it to this extent.  It is corrupt.  It's fake and they shouldn't be allowed of months ago, I just approved the Golan Heights for Israel.  The Golan Heights, another thing.  52 years they tried to do that, they didn't get it done, so we're doing good.  We also recognize the legitimate government of Venezuela and we condemn those that want to stop freedom in that country and other countries.  Tonight we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country, will never, ever, be a socialist country, it just won't happen.  A vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism  Democrats stand for crime, corruption and chaos.  Republicans stand for law, order and justice.  It's true.  It's true.  We believe Wisconsin should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.  We are removing these illegal criminals and gang members by the tens of thousands and we will not let them back.  We made a deal with Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico, where they accept them back.  Under the Obama administration, they get them, they bring them back.  And Honduras and Guatemala, which they get that, we're not taking them love getting up and going for work.  If they don't like that job, they can get another one, because people are starving to get great employees right now.  They're starving to get great employees.  Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%.  Median income.  Think of this.  This is such a big deal.  Median household income reached the highest level in the history of our country.  Under President Bush, in eight years it to win, so it's not going to matter.  And we're going to further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs.  We have a favored nations laws, well now we get the same price as all these nations that are paying a tiny fraction, which should have been instituted a long time ago.  And the drug companies are going after me with those ads.  Oh, it's terrible, terrible.  You know why? Just every time you see an add from the drug company, they got plenty of money, that's why nobody ever fights them. … Does anybody know who won Iowa? I don't know.  Maybe Rander, Lindsey.  Grant, does anybody know who won? Lindsey, you're a total pro.  Nobody knows.  He said nobody.  Flip a coin.  Flip a coin.  Flip a coin.  They're going to run your health care.  Unbelievable.  Nobody knows who won.  Actually, I think they're trying to take it away from Bernie again.  I think Bernie came in second.  Can you believe it? They're doing it to you again, Bernie.  They're doing it to you again.  we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all.  That swamp is bad.  That swamp is bad.  I had no idea it was going to be this sick and this degenerated.  It's a degenerate swamp.  I had no idea.  When I came out, I said, "We're going to drain this swamp. " I had no idea that the swamp was that evil, but we're winning.  We're winning because we're in The White House.  We're winning.  With your help we will lift millions more of our You give this son, who has zero experience with investing, too, you give him $1. 5 billion to invest, meaning he makes millions and millions of dollars, and the biggest guys on Wall Street can't get it.  He walks out with $1. 5 billion.  And then there are other places also, I understand.  Folks, it's disgraceful that the press doesn't cover it for what it is.  It's a payoff.  It's a payoff.  And how would you like to have Sleepy Joe, with the son getting all of this money from China, become president and obsolete.  But a wall will never be obsolete, and a wheel will never be obsolete.  You come back in a thousand years, a wall and a wheel.  Thanks to our powerful new security measures, we've doubled the amount of meth seized at the border over the last year, we've doubled.  We invested $2. 5 trillion in the US military and launched the first new branch of the US Armed Forces in 75 years, the Space Force.  We passed VA Choice and VA Accountability.  And I've accomplished more in 47 months than Joe Biden did wall.  The computers, they come up with a brand new computer, it's genius, 12 days later, it's obsolete.  But walls are never obsolete, neither are wheels.  So I made one mistake and I tell this to these guys because they were great warriors for me, the congressmen.  They were incredible actually.  I tell it to them.  I should have said instead of we will build the wall, we will build the wall, we will build … Then the Democrats held us up and fought us and sued us and everything else and now we  He's a hopeless, poor guy.  They chased him out of his apartment, and he still thinks they're wonderful people.  They're burning down his city.  But I want to go in there with the National Guard so bad.  It would take us 15 minutes to solve the problem.  When they heard in Seattle that we were going in, we were going in the next day, the guys just walked away.  They left.  That was the end of it.  We had nothing to do.  But they want to ban all prayer in ended it.  Also, we've signed something that's incredible.  You're going to see.  Some people say it's bigger than healthcare, and I signed it.  Unfortunately it takes place on January 1st.  You better elect me.  You better elect me.  It's called price transparency.  I said to my people at the end of the day, what is price transparency? This is going to lower your prices by 50%.  You'll be able to negotiate.  You'll be able to do things you're not even allowed to do now, with hospitals, with doctors.  You amazing.  Winston Churchill.  They said, "He didn't lie to the people, to Britain.  He didn't lie. " I said, "Well, let me ask you this.  He stood on buildings when the Nazis, Hitler, were bombing London. " That's pretty brave, because he may have been doing a little drinking, but he was known for that, right? He's got a right to, but it's true.  He stood in the buildings in London, as they were bombing London, and made speeches, and made statements, and had everything.  And he'd sometimes have press conferences.  And the we have.  Our first task is a giant victory.  Tomorrow, right here in the great state of North Carolina with your support, tomorrow we take the first steps to firing Speaker Pelosi and winning back the House in 2020.  We need everybody to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and get out and vote for Dan Bishop and get out and vote for Greg Murphy, you got to get out tomorrow and vote.  Together we will lift millions more from our horrible, horrible situations that have developed over the years.  Look at incredible 2016, then go with something, and if something ever happened, this country will go to hell, I just … You know the stocks I'm talking about, the records.  You don't have records this way.  You have records.  Get used to it, because if that happened, you will see things happen that aren't good.  But, I have to now say, do I want to change the greatest theme in political history, Make America Great Again, with Keep America Great, right? Let's take a little applause, right? We'll go Make America Great Again, you'd clap if you  Incredible.  That's incredible.  In the next decade, 140 million Indian households will rise to the middle class.  In both India and the United States, we're seeing something really remarkable.  Our people are prospering like never before because we are slashing bureaucracy and cutting job killing red tape.  In the United States, thanks to our massive tax cuts and all of our great senators and congressmen and women that are here today and pro worker policies, our economy is breaking one record after another.  Since my election, we have created over 6 million new on? What is going on? Once set loose, these criminal aliens are free to continue their crimes spree against innocent Americans.  Right here in New Jersey, your state's Democrat leaders have instituted sanctuary policies that result in dangerous predators being set free into your community.  For example, Cumberland County, we all know Cumberland County very well, right? Good luck with this one.  They released an illegal alien criminal with multiple charges for sexual assault of a child.  He is now at large, free to search for another innocent victim.  They didn't want to give him values.  He loves his state.  From an all out assault being waged on you from the extreme left.  Not good.  I can't even imagine, how can you vote for somebody from the extreme left? This guy, Beshear, is a major lefty.  You know that, right? Why are we even … Let's just have a good time.  Are you sure we need an election tomorrow, Matt? I don't know.  How does Kentucky vote for a person … I'm telling you, he will always vote for Pelosi and Schumer and shifty Schiff.  How about the Supreme Court.  That's going to take away your guns.  That's going to destroy your second amendment.  That's going to change the whole rationale thinking on so many different subjects like you wouldn't believe, including by the way, life, okay.  Life, pro-life, anybody pro-life here? No, this is going to change the makeup of this country for 50 years.  I don't know that the country will survive 50 years, if that happens, it might not survive five years if that happens.  But the next president and you saw, I put out a list of to launch.  We have the best places.  We have the best places, so it's been incredible what we've done with NASA.  We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools.  We're already there again.  We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.  And, we will live by the timeless works of our national motto, In God We Trust.  For years, you had a president who apologized for America.  Now, you have a president who keep America safe, we have fully rebuilt the United States military.  It's now stronger, more powerful, more lethal than ever before.  We have all brand new equipment and it was all built in the USA.  Thanks to the courage of American heroes, the ISIS caliphate has been totally destroyed and its founder and leader, the animal known as al-Baghdadi is dead.  Crazy Nancy Pelosi said, "Don't call him an animal.  He's a human being. " No, he's an animal.  He's an animal.  Two weeks ago, at my direction, the United States military delivered back.  Now they take them back and they say, "Thank you very much. " They weren't taking them back.  If we had a murderer from Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, we want to bring them back under past administrations.  They bring them and they say, "We don't want them.  Don't land.  You're playing with us. " They say, "Thank you very much.  We will take them back. " Because we've let them know the price is very bad if they don't do that.  Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, illegal crossings Nancy. " And you got to look at her district in San Francisco.  She's spending all her time on this crap or this impeachment stuff.  Take a look at what's happening to the great city, once, of San Francisco.  It's thousands and thousands of tents and drugs and needles and everything you can imagine floating in the streets in the best neighborhoods.  Nancy Pelosi, go home and fix your district, Nancy.  Go home and fix your district.  Go home and fix your district.  If you want a governor who will stand proudly with That's another beauty right there that Comey.  But we caught him, we caught him.  Very smart move.  Getting rid of that guy was a smart move, but we caught him.  Listen, we caught him.  They were spying on the campaign, they were doing actually worse than that.  Nobody's ever done a thing like this, so let's see what happens.  But we caught him cold, we got so much stuff.  Remember the insurance policy, right? From Strzok and Page, two lovers.  They were very smart.  They would use the public servers thing I don't want to do, Michael back there, Michael, hello.  What a job he's done.  But I'm telling them I don't want to do this too early.  I don't want to do it.  You know the Pocahontas thing, I did that, it was before its time.  Right? It was before it's time.  Too early.  1,024.  That means I have more Indian blood than she does, and I have none, unfortunately.  I'd like to say I have a lot.  Got to get me another 4%.  maybe another 10%.  one in the world, the mass murder of American troops and many other people throughout the world, Qasem Soleimani is dead.  I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, and we've achieved the two historic peace deals in the Middle East in just the last month, two, two.  Over 75 years, they did two.  We did two in a month.  And many other countries are coming in, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain have both agreed to normalize buying cars from foreign lands.  We have enough of that.  Biden supported the horrendous South Korea deal that would've wiped out US production of the pickup truck, which is the most … The pickup truck is the most profitable thing the auto industry makes.  You know why? We have something called the Chicken Tax.  Does anyone know what I'm talking about? The Chicken Tax.  It's a tariff of 25%, and it keeps other countries out of here, and it expired, and South Korea didn't want to do it, but they did it.  We got make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you, Minnesota.  Thank you. Thank you, thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  That is a beautiful site right behind me, isn't it? That's a beautiful site.  Thank you very much.  And a very big hello, Wisconsin, we've been very good together.  And I'm thrilled to be with thousands of loyal, hard-working American patriots.  47 days from now, we're going to win Wisconsin and we're going to win four more years in the White House.  This is the don't know.  But you know.  You see the condition he's in.  You can't have him as your president.  And you know what? You can't have her as your vice president, potentially going to be president.  And that's why they're pushing so hard, because they know he's going to be out very soon, and she's going to take over.  And she is the furthest left person of anybody.  She is rated, not by me, she is rated further left than even Bernie Sanders.  Okay? He's second, she's first.  We will hire more the election because we're going through the final stages.  We going through a statutory process, unfortunately.  So think of it, we're going to win.  But let's say the fake news could give me enough phony stories, enough bad stuff that we don't make it.  The new president will get all the credit for price transparency and he won't even know what the hell it is.  And I took the heat.  Isn't that something? But we're going to win.  We got to win for that reason alone.  We've approved a record number of … Because I used to go, "We will build the wall," right? That was a mistake.  I should have said, "We will never ever build it.  Under no circumstances," and they would have forced its building and I would have said, "Okay. " By the way, in all due respect, you know who's going to pay for the wall, right? No, no, they play … The fake news plays.  No, no, through remittance illegal aliens from Mexico are going to pay for the call.  That's what it is.  Remittance.  100% because when I say I have to tell you that.  Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.  And by the way, so is Doug Collins, and so John Ratcliffe.  Thank you fellows.  Thank you.  Two incredible fighters also.  For decades our leaders put global interest and special interest ahead of your interest.  You know that better than anybody, and this state knows it better than anybody.  They traded away your factories, sold your future, squandered your tax dollars, sacrificed your security, and bogged us down in one foreign debacle after another. he can't get anybody to fill.  Nobody wants to go.  Oh, boy, the fake news, look at all those people back there, the fakers.  That's true.  Boy, they covered.  Did you see the other day, now they're finding out that to do an interview, an interview, they ask him a question.  That means they're giving him the questions, they never gave me questions before.  So to do an interview, he demands on getting the questions, and his people write out the answer.  So they ask him a question.  He goes, "Bring  They'll say, "The President of the United States just placed two bets, Justin and Colby. " I don't know.  I don't know, but they are great.  That'd be easy money.  Well, maybe not that easy.  I don't know if it's that easy.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Nevada, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great lot of tough people in New Jersey.  New Jersey is different.  I think New Jersey is different.  No, but these ICE people, they love our country.  They're proud and they're tough people, and they'll go right into a pack.  They call it a pack and they start swinging.  Everyone's swinging or they end up standing up.  That's the end of that, and you know what they do? They bring the MS-13 and many other gang members and other members back to El Salvador, back to Honduras, back to Guatemala, back to Mexico.  with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for the people of New Hampshire and for the people of America.  Together we will lift millions more citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  Millions and millions of people.  With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration.  We will enact trade deals that are already happening that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase made in the USA.  We line two.  And he was like, "What do I do?" But we have more fun.  Hey, you now have a president that doesn't have to use a teleprompter, isn't that nice? And I said last night, I said, and yeah, your friends were there.  The Congressmen.  By the way, is the media now, and I'm pretty sure it's getting close.  I think they have a lower approval rating than Congress.  Congratulations.  No, but it's hard.  When you're sitting there, you're in businesses, you're in construction, you drive trucks, you do a lot The police … I've done this a lot and every once in a while we'll have very little disturbance.  It's really … Actually, is there any place where we can have more fun than at a Trump rally? And we've set every record at every place, virtually, that we've gone.  And one of the big musicians said, "And Trump does it without a guitar. " Can you believe it? Without a guitar.  But this guy … So I've had it a lot where … But sometimes it'll take the police like 30 seconds, 50 seconds.  It's spent years and years building their business, and now they're wiped out.  Take it away.  Governor Inslee ought to get his act together, get in there, I'll help you, I'll do whatever you want.  I'm waiting for a call, I would love to do it.  I would love to do it, it'll take less than an hour and it'll all be over with and you'll have your city back.  Yet Biden remains silent in his basement in the face of this brutal assault on our nation and the values of our nation.  Joe Biden great job with vaccines.  We are creating a pathway to buy drugs from Canada, that are much, much cheaper, in Florida.  Governor Ron DeSantis came to me.  He said, "Sir, this system is so bad. " And you can't fix it unless you have democrat votes, that's why you got to vote the house.  You got to get us back the house.  They say, "Sir, we can buy the drugs in Canada for 50% less. " The same drug made in the same factory, made by the same company.  50% and we can give out of our country, because of ICE.  And if you want to stop all these people from threatening our communities and poisoning our youth, you know it's poisoning our youth.  That's what it is, it's nothing other than that, it's very simple.  They're poisoning our youth.  You have only one choice.  You must elect Republicans.  And to be honest with you, you've got to elect President Trump.  We need four more years.  President Trump.  How about these phony Democrats? They started with Russia, Russia, Russia.  That turned out to be He never spoke to him.  Unfortunately, the next day … In the world of the internet, in the world of smart people … That's why I like Beto, he wasn't smart, couldn't handle it.  I told my wife, I said, "See, it's not so easy. " I told our great First Lady tonight, who people love.  They love her.  When Beto quit, he quit like a dog.  When he quit I said, "See, people think this is easy.  This isn't easy," but it just worked out that way.  But Biden said, "I never win.  But I wouldn't worry about it because he's not winning.  I don't think he's winning.  This is not the crowd of a person who comes in second place.  You do know that.  The same thing happened four years ago.  It was election eve but by the time I got here, it was late.  Some of you are in that audience at one o'clock in the morning now election day.  We had 32,000 people show up and the reason I went is that I heard that crooked Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton and It would be so great.  They're just a bunch of phony people.  Not all of them.  You have some very good ones, like about 10%.  No, you have some very good ones, you have some great journalists, they know it's phony stuff.  They're doing anything they can to get this sleepy guy into the White House and I just don't think the public is going to fall for it.  I don't think the public is going to fall for it.  In his best days, 25, 30 years ago, he was weak.  He me and saying, "Sir it's really terrible what's happening with healthcare.  We're waiting in line for two weeks, for four weeks, for seven weeks. " Honestly people were waiting in line, they weren't very sick, they were terminally ill, truthfully, before they saw a doctor.  By the time they got to the doctor.  So I came up with this incredible plan.  Only I could think of this.  I said, "Here's what you do … Here's what you do, if somebody can't get a doctor quickly," because we have great doctors at the VA.  They including regulations all over the place.  I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal.  We paid $150 billion, 1. 8 billion in cash.  We ought to speak to law enforcement about that.  How do we send 1. 8 billion in cash? In cash? You guys ought to take a look at that please.  I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  Every president said they were going to do that and none of them did it, for decades and decades, they all said. York State so that oil and gas, of which we have plenty, can come.  And do you know where you buy your energy from? Russia.  Did you know that? You have ships, much of it from Russia, because Governor Cuomo, New York won't allow a pipeline and they're desperate to have something happen in upper New York State.  And those are great people, but they've been treated very badly.  But they won't allow a pipeline.  By not allowing a pipeline, we're trying to do it through essentially eminent domain.  By not allowing a pipeline the Obama Regulates.  They're building nice projects right next to your beautiful home.  Lots of luck.  Give free healthcare.  I hope the people in the suburbs … When I did this, I took a lot of heat.  I got rid of a regulation.  They all said, "Sir, we'll amend the regulation.  We're going to amend it. " I said, "I don't want to amend it. " A couple of stories where written.  I wish the women living in the suburbs would read these stories.  They were written by people that say, history of our country, whether it's four years, eight years, or in one case, more.  I told you already, our military is the best it's ever been.  It's got $2. 5 trillion worth of new, beautiful jets and equipment and rockets and everything.  Hopefully, we never have to use it.  Our nuclear arsenal, and hopefully, hopefully we never have to even look at it, our nuclear arsenal is at a level that it's never ever been before, and we have to have it there, but we never want to use it.  So we have done got to get car companies.  We're building car companies now in Michigan.  They're not going to be leaving for lots of other countries, including China, including Mexico.  They're going to stay home, and they're going to pay you a lot of money, and everybody's going to be happy.  But Michigan's doing great.  And Ronna McDaniel was the Republican Party chair of Michigan.  So when we won the election, I said, "Let's get the woman from Michigan to run the RNC. " And she has done an incredible job.  Thank you Ronna.  A and we charge him 392 dollars and 53 cents for staying, and I never heard of the guy and I don't want to hear about him, they say, "Trump is getting rich off our nation. " I lose billions being president.  I don't care.  It's nice to be rich, I guess.  But I lose billions.  If somebody rents a room someplace and they pay me two months in rent or hotel fees, I never heard of the people.  I never know who they are.  They say, "Emoluments. " Nobody ever heard of the word you have to see, even for these cop killers who go around, the predators, they murder children.  People like the Boston bomber.  He opposes the death penalty for the Boston bomber.  He wants to give prisoners a vote.  He wants to have the Boston bomber be able to vote.  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  You know who's thought of that? Bernie Sanders, Crazy Bernie.  He wants to have … Crazy Bernie, he says, "No, no, they have to vote. " So they asked him, are crazy, they have a group of farmers, in some cases they have groups of women, they say, "What do you think of President Trump?" "We like him a lot.  We're with him all the way. " And they want to turn off the cameras.  They go crazy, but with the farmers you know that.  You ever see that? The 10 women.  "What do you think of President Trump?" "We love him!" Boy would I like to put you on television, I'll tell you right now, and they can't turn off those cameras fast enough, but with that.  Working along well.  We're taking them out of Syria, other than I left some behind for the oil, we kept the oil, is it okay that we kept the oil? Is it okay we kept the oil? Let's go back to my poll.  Ready? So we're putting, I think it should be a woman, because I actually like women much more than I like men, I have to say.  No, I do.  I do, I like women more.  So I have to make a decision, to fill the seat, as we say, they've had it.  They've had it.  Biden is a very willing Trojan horse for socialism.  When Biden first ran for president over 33 years ago, remember I used to call him 1% Joe, he never got more than 1% until Obama took him off the trash heap.  But he blatantly copied the speech of a British politician, even ripping off the man's personal biography and family history and claiming it was his own.  He forgot to say he was born in America.  Joe Biden is a shameless hypocrite.  Since 2003, he has delivered fired in our country, they close their business and they make the same product in a different country, they send it back to us, no tax at the border, no tariff, no nothing.  It doesn't work that way anymore.  I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's pillaging, plundering, ransacking, and rampant theft of North Carolina jobs and US jobs.  Joe Biden's agenda is made in China, my agenda is made in the USA.  In the face of China's economic aggression, we provided a historic $28 billion in relief to our amazing farmers. higher, but any poll they give you as a fake.  But Wisconsin, the great state of Wisconsin, I was leading by many, many, many points against every one of these characters.  Can you believe it? We got a new one.  Mini Mike.  How did he do in the debate the other day? Mini Mike.  Here's a box Mike.  Here Mike.  Mini Mike.  He was a beauty.  What happened huh? He couldn't breathe.  What happened? Mike would like to know how about that Pocahontas screaming at him.  She forgot.  ripped off.  We're ripped off by so many countries and we're stopping it.  And that means that a lot of people don't want me here.  They don't want me.  There are a lot of people that don't want me.  They don't sell a lot of bombs when we're not dropping bombs on people.  You know that, right? It's called the military industrial complex.  When rioting and looting broke out in our nation's Capitol, I very quickly deployed the National Guard.  I said, "Get them in. " After watching for an evening or been criticized by being slightly radical.  But we're having a good time doing it this way, right? Because we are finally putting America first.  Under my administration, America's borders are more secure than ever before.  We ended the catch and release, stopped asylum fraud.  And we have deported 20,000 gang members and 500,000 criminal aliens.  We've already built 300 miles of border wall and we're adding 10 new miles every single week.  The wall will soon be completed.  And our numbers on the border are the best they've ever been.  And by what you want running this incredible country of ours.  Every day we make good on the motto, promises made, promises kept.  I've had people back there that don't like me and somebody said, very nicely, that he's actually made certain promises and he's actually kept more promises than he's made.  It's true.  I've done things that I never… I never said we were going to get, as an example with our vets, that we going to get, Joyce, that we were going to have the ability to fire people that don't treat our vets properly.  world.  And now we're doing it again, and we're doing it very rapidly.  This is a super V.  They said, "Oh, I don't know, V is going to be very hard. " No, this is a super V.  We will deliver a safe and effective vaccine this year.  It's already in very good shape.  Very, very good shape.  In a matter of weeks.  We will end the pandemic from China.  We will end our plague from China.  Next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of I can talk to somebody about them for 45 minutes that I don't even know.  45.  I have a beautiful grandchild.  He's really beautiful.  He's so great.  Okay.  What else am I going to say, right? Then I took a… Let's talk one or two.  How's Tiger doing? How's this one? How's that one? That's another five minutes, right? What am I going to do with the other 35 minutes? Maybe I'm going to talk about Supreme court appointments, et cetera.  Got zero.  He got zero out of it.  He what we did.  We now have the ability to fire all of the bad people that are in the VA.  Right? Fired over 8,000 people that were disrespecting our vets.  They wouldn't have done it in primetime, I can tell you that.  But what we've done for our vets, what we've done in rebuilding our military, what we've done in so many ways, and we, unlike the Democrats, will protect your Second Amendment.  Okay? So we've done a job, and we're proud of it, and we have tremendous people.  Let's give them a hand, to ICE, and I want to thank ICE, because the abuse they take and the incredible job they do.  Right here, another criminal alien was arrested for a violent assault in New Jersey.  The sanctuary jurisdiction of Middlesex County defied the ICE request to detain him.  Local authorities released him and he went on to commit a gruesome triple murder.  I could read these cases, honestly, I could read and state these cases to you all night.  I could state these cases to you all night.  No American should ever be hurt, harmed or don't want it.  Sleepy Joe, I don't want it.  But the agitators will go from rioting in the streets to running the halls of government.  Can you believe it? The levers, they call it the levers of government.  The top 10 most dangerous cities in America are run by Democrats and have been for decades.  Now they're trying to impose those policies across the entire country.  No one will be safe in Biden's America.  I can't even call it Biden's America.  God doesn't know he's alive.  He's going to be out amazing. " And when you have the Democrat party and the press, the media, the lame stream media, the fake news, and they're partners… They are partners, okay? Remember the word "Manufactured?" They used the word manufacturer on something, never been used for that thing, and every news gets "The manufactured crisis started. " The next one, "This crisis was manufactured. " Every one of them used the word "Manufactured. " They know what I'm talking about now.  Now, that's called collusion, folks.  That's real collusion.  You have that, and so you have the Democrats, you have of both oil and natural gas on planet earth and number one by far, with much of it coming right here from the great state of Texas.  That means more jobs, higher wages, and lower prices at the pump.  Yesterday, we were thrilled to hear about the Indian company Petronas pledge to purchase up to 5 million tons of LNG per year from the United States, which could lead to billions of dollars of LNG exports to India in the coming years.  And we have plenty of it.  Over the last year, crude exports to India the words of our national motto.  Nobody will ever take it down.  Nobody will ever take it down.  We will never allow them to take it down.  In God we trust.  We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who built this country into the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth and we are going to be better than ever before and it won't even be close, and we're right there.  Our ancestors crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered sciences, won two world the low way. " No, that's no good either.  Got to be very precise with these characters.  The Democrats don't have to be, but we have to be.  We've destroyed he ISIS territorial caliphate 100%, we killed the founder and leader of ISIS.  Al Baghdadi is dead.  Al Baghdadi is dead.  17 years.  They looked for him.  17 years.  Al-Baghdadi.  One of the first things I did when I came in.  He's the founder of ISIS and when I came in three years ago, ISIS was all over the course, I want them to do well, but I do.  We don't have anything.  Nobody's running against us in so many states.  It's sort of nice.  We can save the thunder, right? But I hear that in Nevada.  I'm hearing bad things about their vote count.  I hear a lot of bad things are happening, like they don't know what the hell they're doing.  I turned on the other night, Iowa, I wanted to see … And by the way, we set a record in the history of Iowa.  We had more someone called 1% Joe.  I used to call him 1% because you could never get 1% in the primaries.  Then he got brought out by Obama out of the trash heap, became vice president.  But we've now named him Very Slow, Sleepy Joe.  Very slow.  He's gotten slower and slower.  I'm afraid if he gets a nomination, he'll be so slow we'll have the lowest-rated debates in history as opposed to the highest-rated debates in history against crooked Hillary.  In fact, I don't even think that Sleepy Joe will get it.  But is no better leader than him, what he has done.  And together we're fighting for American orphans, foster families, and the sacred rights of religious believers.  And he's done a fantastic job.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from their mother's womb right up until the moment of birth.  And that's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, you know who have been great? Our great farmers have been so incredible because they've been targeted by China, and frankly they've been targeted for a long time, including by incompetent politicians that have run this country for a long time.  So we're making up for a lot of lost ground.  But do we give up make America great for keep America great? Keep America great.  Okay, you ready? Ready? I love this because it's free.  And we have all the time in the world, right? Is there anything better than a Trump rally? What about We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we live by the words of our national motto and we always will.  You'll never see it disappear.  In God We Trust.  We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who crossed the oceans, love you, Michigan.  Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you to Greenville, North Carolina, I want to thank you.  And to, Mike Pence, you've done a great job.  Great Vice President.  Thank you Mike.  And we have all night, we're going to have a lot of fun tonight, and I have nothing to do, nothing, nothing.  We have nothing to do but make our country great again, and that's happening fast.  It's wonderful to be back in this beautiful state with thousands And I have to tell you, a lot of things are happening.  You're going to hear about that in two seconds.  Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, illegal crossing are down 75% since May.  We have ended catch and release.  Catch and release, you know what catch and release is? We catch them.  We take down their name and we release them.  What kind of crap is that? These are the policies that we inherited.  You catch somebody, take their name.  Say "Please come back in three years. " something I mean it.  I said I was going to build a wall.  You think it's easy when you have a party that controls the House, you got to end that.  You got to end that.  They said they picked up the House in '18 but I didn't run in '18.  You know the big difference when you run, '16 I ran, '18 I didn't run.  They did, they picked up some seats.  I didn't run, but I'm running this time and we've got to take back the House.  Kevin McCarthy will Again.  Wait.  And we have our new phrase, because we've made America great.  I've told you, stock market, we've rebuilt our military, we've cut your taxes at a level that nobody could even think possible.  Take a look at your median income, take a look at what's happened.  The numbers, median household income, take a look at your numbers.  With President Bush, it went up $400 in eight years.  With President Obama, it went up $975 in eight years.  With President Trump, it went up 5,000, but whoa, whoa, whoa, in less That's good.  And it's true, your kids come home, and they tell you things.  How many of you, the kids come home, and they tell you things.  It's a disgrace, what they're teaching them, it's a disgrace.  We're ending it.  In fact, we're taking school funds away from these crazy schools that are teaching horrible things, bad things, actually.  We will teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth.  And we are getting better every single day.  And no party world.  All over the world.  Trafficking in women and children all over the world.  All over the world.  The worst it's ever been, but when we have this border it makes it very, very tough for them to come into the United States with women and with children stuffed in trunks in the back of a car.  The Washington Democrats have never been more extreme.  132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie Sanders' government healthcare takeover bill.  It's a takeover of your healthcare that would strip all of those 180,000 million great thing to worry about.  If our foreign adversaries were devising a scheme to cripple America, they could hardly do better than the Biden, Kamala Harris, Kamala.  Remember Kamala? She started at 15.  She was supposed to win.  Problem was she went from 15 to 14 to 12 to 10 to seven to four.  It's like a free fall.  You know what, people don't like her.  Nobody likes her.  She could never be the first woman president.  She could never be.  That would be an insult to our country.  Biden they can't find the ballots.  Wants to force you to provide free healthcare to illegal aliens, you remember he raised his hand, that will totally drain your wonderful Medicare.  Remember the question up there, he's standing up, " Who is willing to give free healthcare to illegal aliens. " And, everybody raises their hands like fast.  Kamala was right up there.  By the way, that will destroy your country, you do know that.  Because you can't afford it, and Biden's looking around, "Oh, they all raise their hand. " He goes, remember.  I remember. who's grossly incompetent.  They paid $150 billion to Iran, they paid 1. 8 billion in cash.  That's even more impressive, frankly, in cash, that's John Kerry.  And we just made a deal with Bahrain and UAE, United Arab Emirates, and Israel, and it's a great thing.  And the man right there, Jared, the abuse, the abuse he takes, but he did something that nobody's been able to do, and he wants none of the glory, he'd rather not come up here.  These guys will come up 100%.  Jared, great deal, great job.  Incredible. pulling the troops, you know that, we're coming back, we're almost finished.  We're pulling … Finally, these endless wars.  These endless wars, and we had to fight other things but we've done a great job but we're acting like a police force over there.  No, we're pulling the troops, we're almost out of Iraq.  That's another one, we're down to about 2,000 troops, did you know that Sean? 2,000 troops.  So Syria, we're out but we kept the oil so we have some … Was it okay that we at least kept the oil? I you have Alfred E.  Neuman who's running, who's this guy.  This guy Buttigieg.  Buttigieg.  Can you believe he's doing well? He's like the leading fundraiser.  I dream about him.  It's true.  No, Buttigieg.  But I'm not going too far with any of these people because I thought I was way too early with Elizabeth Warren.  We destroyed her too fast.  So she came back.  But she's going back down again.  Did anybody see her beer deal where she said, "Darling. " Did you ever see that deal? Darling. with that number than 150 billion dollars, you want to know the truth.  1. 8 billion dollars in cash and we got taken to the cleaners so I terminated the deal.  And I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem which every president said they would do.  And I also approved for Israel the Golan Heights and if you really think about it, I said to people, "What's more important, the Golan Heights or the capital of Jerusalem by moving our embassy there?" He said, "Neither, sir.  What you've done in Iran just hit … I can't really say, Make America Great Again.  Our military is rebuilt, $2. 5 trillion.  Our military is rebuilt.  We're doing great numbers.  Economically, our country is the strongest it's ever been.  You have factories moving back into Ohio.  You never saw anything like it, right? You had your best year.  When I say Make America Great Again, what that sort of means is we didn't get there, but we did get there.  Now, I have a new theme.  It's called Keep America Great.  Keep America Great. we have the greatest medicines in the world, the greatest doctors, the greatest labs in the world, nobody close, but it takes years to get it approved.  And I got it approved so you can sign a document, get it.  If you want to see the lives that we're saving, it's a beautiful thing.  A beautiful thing is happening, Right to Try.  Right to Try.  But we've also created 7 million new jobs since the election.  If I would have said that, the fake news would have gone crazy, they would have said that's work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we will always live by the words of our national motto, "In God We Trust. " We stand on the shoulders of generations of Ohio patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation.  From Cleveland to Cincinnati, from Dublin to Dayton, and from Columbus to Toledo, this state she's my daughter, Ivanka.  Fred Ducette and Lou Gargiulo.  Thank you all very much.  And David and Corey, thank you also for being here.  Also a woman that not too many people know.  Very powerful, very smart, very beautiful, even though I'm not allowed to say that because she's my daughter, Ivanka.  Come here.  Come on up, Ivanka.  And Jared who's making deals that are so good for this country, people have no idea what's happening.  I will tell you, we are making trade deals and other deals the likes of arrested over 50 people the first time.  We said, either do it or what going in.  We're going to have to go in, do it.  Let us go in.  We're saying I spoke to the governor of Oregon the other day.  Let us go in.  I said, let us go in.  We'll straighten it out in less than a half an hour.  Now the US Marshals did go in to take care of that one guy who killed somebody.  You saw that.  He killed a young man in the middle deal is, "We don't like the deal. " Did you look at it? "Oh, of course, we looked at it.  It doesn't have tariffs.  Oh no, it does have tariffs. " They know nothing about the deal.  Automatically, anything we do, they just take the reverse.  But you know what? I'd probably do it to them too, so I can't complain.  And perhaps no issue have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds than on the subject of immigration.  Under my administration, we've achieved the most secure border in American history. Maine.  I went to Maine four or five times.  I needed one point.  Maine gave me one point.  And what happened? What happened? I went there numerous times.  Everyone said, "Why?" Because I was told by these fraudsters back here in the media that Trump cannot get to 270.  He cannot get… They had me maximum, if everything worked, right? At 269.  So I kept going to Maine, and you know what? We won that one point in Maine.  We won it.  It's true.  But I kept going.  They This is this idiot.  So listen, "So darling, please, please tell me again.  Yes, 100 million to one she's going to win.  But just in case she doesn't, we have an insurance policy. " Now that only means one thing.  And we went through the insurance policy and we caught them.  So let's see what happens to these treasonous crooks.  These terrible people.  And they put our nation through turmoil.  But I just want to thank… A lot of people were very unfairly treated.  You look at General Flynn, look, he's really we, it's not me.  We're doing it together.  They came from the Hills, they came from the mountains, from the rivers, they came from all over the place.  And they showed up and they voted like nobody's seen before.  And it was 306 to 223, remember? 306.  And we won Wisconsin and they said, "Oh, we never thought of that. " Got to think about those things.  And we won Michigan.  And now we have a lot of car companies coming into Michigan, and we have a lot of great farming events in a little fight with California over that.  But I think ultimately we win that one.  You'll buy a better car, a safer car, for less money.  Not a bad combination.  Not a bad thing.  To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most, we've created opportunity zones.  Jobs and investment are now pouring into 120 newly designated opportunity zones right here in Wisconsin.  And Ron Johnson helped and Tim Scott of South Carolina helped, right? They're doing great.  They are doing good.  And for decades politicians ran for office court. " Man.  Today's Democrat Party glorifies illegal immigration, vilifies the heroes of law enforcement, and pledges to dissolve immigration control entirely.  They want open borders.  They want hundreds of thousands of people to flow into our country.  And some of those people, some of those people are stone cold killers.  Some of those people, in the caravans, right? I came up with that name but they won't give me credit for that.  They don't give me credit for anything.  They don't give me credit for fake news.  Wasn't that my term? in Kevin.  We're going to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  We'll enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful words "made in the USA".  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending, listen to this, the AIDS epidemic in America within less than 10 years.  We've already started.  Who would have felt we could have done that? We've started.  In the past administration toward the end, we had certain things that we could have done. we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We're going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  And together with the incredible people of Nevada, we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again successful, you don't want the Supreme Court to try and get rid of this, the caucus.  It's a caucus known as Obamacare, but we're running it much better than they did.  Remember when they had, this was the greatest, the $5 billion website, right? 5 billion.  It was supposed to cost 5 million.  I have a son at home.  He's 13.  He's a genius with computers.  "Hi, dad.  What's up? Dead dad.  Get out of here. " Hey listen.  I'm the president of the United States, pal.  Don't talk got to ask them, "Why?" Do you ever watch where they're very critical of me.  I mean, "We don't like him on foreign policy. " Really? Look what I've done.  Look what I've done.  Israel… We're signing deals all over the place.  These guys that are lecturing all the time, they don't have a clue.  They're clueless.  They were clueless.  That's why for 40 years you got nothing except blood in the sand.  That's all you got.  Blood in the sand.  I saved the US auto industry by withdrawing from a lot of credit.  He's been a great governor, Chris Sununu, with a great father too, great father.  With a great father… His father was tough.  Chris, your father was so tough.  He was for somebody else in the primaries, and then one by one… I won here, I won there, I won there.  And then when I won his father got on and I said, "Oh, this guy kills me.  He's so tough," and he said, "President Trump will be the greatest of all time.  I said, "What happened? What happened?" He Ukraine, was perfect.  Everybody that looked at it.  And the only reason I released it was that the Democrats put out a phony narrative.  So I had no choice.  And I don't want to do that as president, every time a president from a country calls me, or I call them, we have to release the text.  How can you do business that way? Who's going to want to speak to your president? So the president of Ukraine reiterated today at a major news conference, on other subjects, that he was under absolutely no pressure. to her district.  Her district is one of the most disgusting dirty… it used to be one of the best in the country.  Now it's a disgrace what's happened.  Drug dealings all over the place.  The homeless they're not taking care of.  Tents down major thoroughfares.  What happened in San Francisco, in particular her district, and she lives in this beautiful house.  But they turn all these arsonists out, including killing their victims with machetes, MS-13.  They kill them with machetes.  You know why? Because it's more painful than using a the history of our country.  Over the last two years, the unemployment rate among Indian Americans dropped by nearly 33 and one third percent.  Wages are rising, incomes are soaring, and inequality is falling at the fastest rate in many, many years.  In the past 12 months alone, the average worker has taken home $1,000 extra in rising wages and over $3,000 with tax cuts and all of the other things that we've done.  And for the first time in history, most new hires of prime working age are minorities and women.  First time that's country.  A shutdown we'll destroy the lives and dreams of tens of millions of American.  Look the Americans, you know, on the other side if you look at these shutdowns, and you're living through it right now.  You know, there aren't many states that are shut down.  They're all Democrats.  North Carolina, your state.  But North Carolina, we're not … You take a look at North Carolina.  Pennsylvania shut down.  Every one of them that are shut down are doing not well.  They're not doing well.  And they all have to be raising everybody's taxes almost.  Joe Biden is running on the most extreme far left platform of any nominee in American history and of our foreign adversaries, we're devising a plan to destroy the United States from within.  All they have to look is at the Biden Harris.  How about her? Is she a beauty? What a beauty that is.  They pick a woman who starts off… She starts off sort of strong.  She's one of the favorites.  Within a period of a few months, she goes down, down 15, 12, 11, nine, less on our military, we've totally rebuilt.  Two and a half trillion dollars, we've totally rebuilt our military.  Bernie Sanders declared, in his speech, many of the ideas that just a few years ago were considered radical, are now mainstream.  That's Bernie Sanders.  Because Joe, he doesn't know where he is.  But if he did, he's been brought so far left that our country will not be the country that we know.  It will have problems, it will go down.  Your stocks will be gone, your 401ks will disappear.  And right now, of thousands of lives and all we do is get hit on like we're terrible.  And what we've done with the ventilators and with the medical equipment.  And with testing, you know, testing is a double edged sword.  We've tested now 25 million people.  It's probably 20 million people more than anybody else.  Germany's done a lot.  South Korea has done a lot.  They called me, they said, the job you're doing … Here's the bad part.  When you do testing to that extent, you're going to find more people, you're going York.  With Pennsylvania, I don't have to make a play.  We've got Pennsylvania.  Just go out of here.  We don't have to make a play.  We don't have to.  It's a great, you know, for years though Pennsylvania was a place that Republicans just didn't win.  For many years, everybody thought they were going to win, every Republican.  So yeah, we're going to win Pennsylvania.  They thought they were going to win it and they didn't.  I came along and we won it and we won it quite easily.  the way, Mexico is paying for the wall.  Just in case you didn't know that.  They don't know that.  They're paying for the wall.  You haven't noticed on the wall.  Everything was wall, wall.  They didn't think I was going to get it done.  Because look, you have one major party controlling Congress and they don't want to give me a wall.  So they're going crazy.  "Wall.  The wall's not getting done. " Then I get it done.  Get it from the military, get it from everything.  I'm that we … I have done a phenomenal job with it, I shut down the United States to very heavily infected but all people from China in late January, which is months earlier than other people would have done it, if they would have done it at all.  I saved hundreds of thousands of lives.  We don't ever get even a mention.  Then I closed it down to Europe early, closed it down because I saw what was happening.  And by the way, most people said, don't do it, don't do it.  We saved hundreds Washington back as your Presidential candidate.  You could bring Abraham Lincoln.  Let's put him as the Vice Presidential candidate.  Run in Texas and other states, you couldn't win.  You couldn't win.  Now, they're not going to win.  We're going to win this.  And you're against the oil stuff too.  Because his whole thing on oil, no fracking, no this, no that.  New England has the highest energy costs in the United States.  And you know why? Because Governor Cuomo will not let a pipeline go across the tip of New China.  My agenda is made in the USA.  That's a nice plane.  Somebody said to me, "Your plane's just as nice as that. " I said, "No, it's not.  That's Air Force One.  That's the nicest. " Always, that's the nicest.  I also authorize millions of dollars to save Michigan Soo Locks, and forget all the problems they had.  For years and years, they fought over the money to do it.  We got $300 million to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, and we have done a job on the Soo Locks.  time record.  And now they have a new one.  And I'm enriching myself.  Let me tell you, by doing this and taking this particular job, which I love, it will cost me billions and billions of dollars, but if somebody from the Middle East that I never saw before, comes in and stays in one of my hotels for an evening, and pays $439, emoluments.  Nobody ever heard the word emolument before.  Emolument, nobody ever heard that word, emolument.  He's enriching himself.  If somebody buys a tank of gas in Scotland, from an news media would agree, make America great again, MAGA country, make America great again.  Now we still have a year and a half, little bit less, can you believe it? Can you believe it? I stood in the White House with the first lady that first night and I said, "Wow, look at this.  That's the bedroom of Abraham Lincoln," you have to see this.  It's so perfectly done, it's so the way it was.  We announced it in front of the press and in 2026.  And I said, "Well, wait a minute, under the on for many years.  I got it done.  The results have been unbelievable.  Right to Try.  Things that we've never even talked about we're getting done.  Maybe one of the biggest things is within about a month, we'll have close to 180 federal judges, including the public division judges.  Including two great new Supreme Court Justices.  Justice Neil Gorsuch, and Justice Brett Cavanaugh, who they put through hell.  We passed something that they've wanted to do for half a century.  We passed VA Choice.  So when your great and honored have confirmed 157 judges to follow the constitution as written.  We're supporting our police, we're rebuilding our military, we're defeating radical Islamic terrorists like never before.  The monsters animal known as Al-Baghdadi is dead.  And the man that took his place is dead also.  American Special Forces gave the world's number one terrorist a one way ticket to hell.  No enemy on earth stands a chance against the awesome power of the United States military, which is now stronger than ever before.  We've rebuilt it and it was all made in America.  All two reporters that hate my guts, they looked at themselves, they looked at each other.  Famous shot.  They're looking like this and they're saying, "What the hell is going on?" They knew.  They knew.  And I didn't need Beyonce and Jay Z, and I didn't need little Bruce Springsteen and all of these people.  They'd get all these people.  They'd come in because she couldn't get a crowd.  They'd come in, they'd sing.  They got Bruce Springsteen.  Okay? He'd do about two songs and leave.  What happens is, they leave, you will soon find out, paying for the wall.  Okay? They'd hit you with that.  Now the wall is ultimately and very nicely being paid for by Mexico, and it's an advantage for Mexico, too, when you think about it.  The wall is a vital barrier for blocking deadly drugs from pouring into these communities.  What we're doing is stopping drugs at a record number.  It's still anything that comes over is too much, but we're blocking it at a record number.  I'm also very proud to report that we won a critical Supreme we did a lot of other things, but these are for two different deals, and not one mention was made on the evening news.  Think of it.  I got rid of the prosecutor, here's the billion, right? But they don't want to play that too often.  You have to look around for it.  It's a very unfair deal but as the expression goes, we won, I don't know how the hell we did it.  When you look at the opposition, when you look at how unfair it is and these guys know very well, you last time, and we're going to win it again, but even bigger.  Our polls have gone, over the last month, they've gone through the roof.  You look at it, take a look at it, it came out today.  The FireHouse poll, it's an important poll.  It was always good.  I never looked at it.  Today, I like it a lot.  We're up through … nobody can even believe it.  So what Pelosi did, and as I said, they do the impeachment, then right away, let's do USMCA, right on top of it. guy.  I know your other Senator.  I can tell by her hair.  She's got interesting hair.  But that was John's first crack.  He learned a lot.  And frankly, and I mean this, if he had more support from the Republican Party, he would've won that race.  He would've.  But this guy Peters, right? Peters.  I say, "Who's Peters?" Nobody knows him.  He doesn't do anything.  I mean, look, we're going to end this, but I have to tell you, John James can be so great.  He loves our up.  They give me no credit.  You know why? Because they're fake news.  That's why.  We're building a lot of walls.  The Army Corps of Engineers is doing a great job.  They're doing a great job.  Since I took office, we've attacked the challenge with everything we have.  We have secured a record $6 billion in new funding.  Opioid.  We vastly increase the distribution of overdose reversing drugs, which are pretty amazing things.  We've given them to your police department, your fire department, pretty amazing.  We have reduced relentless attacks on police and his constant slander that America is racist.  By the way I've gotten the support of almost every police group in the country.  Sheriffs in Florida, Ohio, Texas, North Carolina.  All over the country, but did you notice he's starting to talk a little bit tougher now, did you notice that? He sees what's going on, his polls are dropping like a rock and he sees what's going on.  Now he's starting to say, "No, we need law and order. " No he didn't say that, did he? He'll never get to levels, I think you should vote for sleepy Joe, because he's going to raise your interest.  He'll be raising your interest rates.  I watch him though, he's denying all this up.  Everything that he said, he's now denying.  He said, no fracking, right? There will be no fracking during the … he didn't know what fracking was, but he said there's no fracking.  The reason is because everybody else, all of the radical left candidates up there, they couldn't get too far left, so Joe agreed.  Then he gets the nomination, now they're all She's incredible.  She's tough and smart and strong, and she's with us all the way.  Cindy Hyde-Smith.   Trent Kelly, Michael Guest.  Incredible people.  And your next Lieutenant Governor, Delbert Hosemann.  Your next Attorney General, Lynn Fitch.  Your next Secretary of State, Michael Watson.  Great people.  Your next State Treasure, David McRae.  State Auditor, Shad White.  Agriculture Commissioner, Andy Gipson.  Insurance Commissioner, Mike Chaney.  And former governor, a man that nobody's ever heard of in this room, I'm sure, but the truth is he's a legend in down Fifth Avenue or walking down a street of a Democrat run city, you never hear them saying, they're not wearing their mask.  You don't hear their say, as they're breaking windows and running in.  And then when I say the looters, the anarchists, the agitators, they say, "What a terrible thing for our president to say, what a terrible thing. " But you don't hear them talking about COVID, COVID, to be specific, COVID-19.  That name gets further and further away from China, as opposed to calling it the Chinese virus.  And despite the fact and we've got to stop it.  Democrats have no complaint about the rioters and the vandals, marauding through our cities or mass unruly demonstrations, but they don't believe law abiding citizens can go to a church together.  You can't go to church anymore.  You know how many churches are closed in this country because of the Democrats? You can go out and you can have thousands of people marauding through the streets, threatening other people, beyond threatening, kicking them in the face, doing what they've done.  You've seen it.  They would have done that to to illegal aliens.  Now, what that's going to do is destroy our country, because two things happen.  Number one, we can't afford it.  Number two, everybody is going to come pouring into our country if you do that.  Right now, they're saying, wherever they are, when you say, "We're going to give you free education, we're going to give you free healthcare.  We're going to take care of you.  Everything's going to be perfect.  We're going to give you, every single family," now watch, they'll print this.  "We've checked it out, and Heights.  And instead of endless wars, we are forging peace all over the Middle East.  And you saw that.  And I'm the only man that got nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize and I didn't get any press.  They wouldn't.  For two of them.  Last week, I'm not bragging about it, I'm just saying, I'm the President of the United States because of Kosovo-Serbia, they've been killing each other for years, I worked out a deal for them.  I got nominated.  And then Israel with Bahrain and UAE, and many more to China, not to other very terrible forces out there, because if we win, very simply America wins.  And that's what we want, we want this great country to win.  Over the last three and a half years, we've secured America's borders.  Fixed the disastrous trade deals, they have been the worst ever.  Not even … it was not even … when I looked at these, I studied them and I used to talk about them, they had to be bad.  When I started studying, I said, "Who are the people that made these deals?"2 Grossly ad by the fakers.  So I was bent over, right? Bent over like this.  Then we finally reached almost the end and the fake news, the most dishonest human beings, they cut it off.  You know why? Because when I was 10 feet short, I said, "General, I'm sorry," and I ran down the rest, right? I looked very handsome.  That was the only good.  I wouldn't want to run down the whole thing because the fall there would be definitely bad.  So I took these little steps, I ran down the last 10, have earned the everlasting gratitude of our nation.  And I want to thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  As you know, better than anyone, the survival of our nation is at stake in this election.  And I will tell you, I never thought I'd say it because we had a great election.  We had a great election a little while ago.  Four years ago, I never thought I'd say anything could compete with 2016.  This election that we're going into is the most important election in the history of our country, a new camera that can't turn, but then whenever there was like a problem, like there'd be a little argument or some kind of an anti-Trump person, you don't see that much.  I don't want to bring it on, but you don't see it much anymore.  You know why? It's dangerous.  It's dangerous for them, but you know, I'd see the camera would never move, whenever where there's something like a little negative happening, that thing would turn around like a pretzel.  I said, "Oh, it does move. " But, they never want to show the two points. " I said, "You got to be kidding. " But we did.  So much evolves around Ohio and it's just a state that we have a relationship with.  It's a great state.  We've done a great job for you and you've done a great job for us.  So we appreciate it very much.  Thank you.  Together, we've spent the last four years reversing the damage done by the Democrats and Joe Biden over a 47 year period.  Think of it.  He's always talking about, "You should have done this.  them in.  They didn't want that to happen, and we let the protestors know, or whatever you call them.  They're really anarchists, they're not protestors.  So we let the anarchists know that we were going in with approximately 10,000 very tough people, and they immediately raised their hands, and the Seattle police, who by the way, could do a great job if they were let to do their job, but they're not, they're not.  And as you know, in Portland, the other day, we had to send in the US Marshalls.  A man, who's a  We can't do anything.  We have to be politically correct.  We catch them.  We then say, "what's your address?" They don't know.  They don't even know their country in many cases.  Where do you come from? We don't know and they mean it, but some are very serious criminals.  So, we catch them, we take whatever they can take, which is nothing, and then we had to release them in our country.  We can't bring them back.  And then we have a system of judges, thousands of judges all over the out of here, right? But we have a lot of time.  I'd like now to invite these incredible sport legends to join me on stage.  A friend of mine and a very good golfer, by the way, Captain Mike he rode a bike.  Mike.  Where's Mike? Where is he? Mike.  Do you know who he is? He's a fake handicap is what he is.  Say something Mike.  Just welcome everybody to ironic we happen to be here to celebrate our 40th anniversary, the Vegas Knights flew the whole team out to honor us and one that was almost as bad and gave China an entrance into being a rocket ship when they entered the World Trade, WTO.  One of the worst deals that we participated in this.  By the way, we just won $7. 5 billion in a lawsuit with WTO.  We weren't winning anything.  We weren't winning anything, but they said, "I think this guy's going to pull out. " They treated us so unfairly.  We were always in the minority position.  I mean, who the hell negotiated these deals? But they look at us and put in crazy Bernie.  Let's go.  Crazy Bernie.  Unemployment has reached its slowest rate in over 51 years, half a century.  The average unemployment rate for my administration… Think of this.  The average, so we're talking about now more than three years, is the lowest for any US president in recorded history.  The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached record lows, lowest in history.  African American youth unemployment has reached an all time low in the history of our country.  African American and Hispanic American poverty and so many others.  We don't have to mention Lou, the great Lou Dobbs, right? I mean, Lou Dobbs said, Lou started years ago, and he liked us from the beginning.  He said, "Donald Trump is going to be a very good president. " Okay.  That was the first little time.  Then he went, "Donald Trump.  I love Donald Trump, but he's the best since Ronald Reagan. " Then he went, "Donald Trump is an even better president than Ronald Reagan. " So that was about a year and a half into it.  Then three years ago, ISIS was all over the place.  Now the caliphate is 100% destroyed.  Do you remember when I wanted to leave when it was at 98%? I said, let some of the other countries finish it off.  We're going home, right? They all said, "Oh, no sir, please finish it. " So we finished it off to 100%.  A few days ago.  We took bold and decisive action to defend American lives and deliver American justice.  At my direction, the United States military launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world's left-wing propaganda in our schools, I announced last week that we're launching a pro-American lesson plan for students called 1776 Commission.  We will teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and we are getting better and better all the time.  We got to.  No party can lead America that will not teach our children to love America.  Biden's running mate, Kamilla.  Who likes Kamilla? Does anybody like her? She was the most failed candidate.  I mean, she started off good.  Maine, too.  It's got one point, right, one.  I went there a lot, many times.  Everyone said, well, they kept getting me, maybe if I have a great night, 269, but 269 loses.  Right? But we got 306 to 223.  306, 223, so they were right, "You cannot get to 270, you can get to 306," but not that there is… In the eight years before my election, net farm income plummeted by 20%, you know that.  If you look at a chart, for 15 years actually, not eight, for 15 years, it's like amazing heroes of ICE and Border Patrol, and we will always support law enforcement.  Every Democrat candidate also wants to give illegal immigrants free welfare.  Republicans believe public benefits should be protected for truly needy Americans, not for illegal aliens.  And we should reduce our taxes and many other things with all of that money that we're talking about.  We need to elect a strong Republican majority to end sanctuary cities.  Stop human traffickers, stop drug smugglers and adopt an immigration system that puts the needs of American workers and families first.  It's also tells you negative ads, at least against me, aren't so good.  They can be effective.  But I think they spent like $ 2 billion on negative ads.  Everything was negative.  So nobody knew what the hell she spent.  You know, her husband said she was going to lose.  Her husband's a professional.  Her husband said, "You better go to Michigan because I was there and they got a Trump/Pence sign on every lawn I've ever seen.  You better go to Wisconsin, Hillary.  You better go to Wisconsin. " She said, "No, trouble with the fake news back there.  But the other is a basic disaster for our country.  Joe Biden devoted his career to offshoring your jobs, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless foreign wars, along with some of his other friends and surrendering our children's future to countries like China.  Remember this, very simple to remember.  If Biden wins, China wins.  It's as simple as that.  So you have a situation where we built the greatest economy in the history of the world.  We were forced to close it because of be here.  I don't know.  You know what? If I had to wait three days, I think I'd like your seat better.  I like your seat.  But Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos.  Republicans stand for law, order, and justice.  That's really the way it is.  We side with law enforcement, with law abiding Americans, not law breaking criminal aliens.  We are removing these illegal criminals and gang members from our country by the thousands.  We are sending them home.  And we will no let them back in.  very good deals against the United States, but he's somebody that's going to be missed.  He's a great gentleman.  He championed every special interest, Biden, every special interest.  And he sold out on trade.  He sold out like almost nobody ever before.  Earlier this year, I kept my promise to American workers when we ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law.  I saved the US auto industry by withdrawing from the last administration's job killing catastrophe, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  You ever hear of that beauty? That would to your great governor.  He's a great governor, Doug Ducey.  I don't want you going to your governor saying, "Governor, governor, we just can't stand winning so much.  Please go see the president in the oval office.  Governor, the people of Arizona don't want to keep on winning.  It's too much governor.  It's not even fair to the rest of the planet.  Please tell him, Governor Ducey, please tell him, ‘President, the people of Arizona have won too much.  We don't want to keep on winning. '" And I'll look at Doug hadn't hit us, we would have numbers the likes of which nobody thought were even remotely possible.  But it did, and we saved a lot of lives.  They keep saying, "Oh, they just …" By the way, if we had two people die, they would have said he did a terrible job.  If we had 100 people die, if we had 1000, no matter what we do.  We have trade deals.  We announced a trade deal, everybody is saying how great it is.  Schumer and Pelosi see it, they have no idea what the this.  Sign this. " "Okay.  What is it?" "Doesn't matter.  Just sign it, President, right now. " "I'm getting tired.  I'd like to rest, I'd like to let Kamala take over as president. " That's no way to get into the office, because we're going to have a woman president someday, but you know what? It can't be Kamala.  Kamala.  Nobody treated him worse, and he picked her.  I'll tell you, I was … brilliant forecast.  He could never pick her.  She called him a racist.  Right? She talked about  That's a tough job.  My administration's achieved the most secure border in American history.  We ended the catch and release disaster.  Remember you'd catch somebody, "What's your name?" "I don't know. " "What's your address?" "I don't know. " "Okay.  Go into our country.  That's okay. " You couldn't arrest anybody.  We ended it, stopped asylum fraud and we've deported over 20,000 gang members, including MS13 and over a half a million criminal illegal aliens.  Now think about it.  Think of that number.  Think if you at a half a was all over the place.  And we immediately started.  We have destroyed 100% of the ISIS caliphate.  We have killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi is dead.  And we just took out the world's top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever.  And the fake news doesn't want to tell you that.  They don't want to tell you that.  They don't want to tell you.  In fact, do you remember the dog? Great dog, Conan.  When we took out, right? We love Conan.  Conan's a the great Lou Dobbs said, "Donald Trump may be the greatest of all time.  Greatest of all time. " And then somebody said, "Can I ask you Lou, when you say the greatest, does that include Abraham Lincoln and George Washington?" He said, "Absolutely.  He's now the greatest of all time. " So we love Lou Dobbs.  Lou Dobbs is great.  Go out and buy his book.  His book is great.  But we have great support.  We have great support.  Tucker's been very good lately, I have to tell you.  Tucker administration's trans-Pacific partnership would have dealt the death blow to the American auto industry.  That would have been one of the great catastrophes.  My first week in office, I canceled that job-killing travesty.  You know all about it.  Under our policies just days ago, Ford and the UAW announced a $1 billion investment in Louisville.  1 billion.  Before my election, our leaders used the great American middle-class as a piggy bank to fund their delusional global projects.  They were globalists.  I was elected to be president of the United States, not president security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare.  We're defending your right to keep your doctor and your plan.  We're defending that right.  You're going to have that right back.  We're going to cancel that Obamacare if we could win the case and we're going to give you great healthcare and we're making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office.  We're managing it very well.  We got rid of the individual mandate, by far the most unpopular thing where it but you don't hear… In the history of our country, there has never been a movement like this, and this movement is stronger now than it was three years ago.  This is the strongest movement in the history of our country.  But we are, we're one movement, we're one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  We're doing things that nobody thought was possible, no other nation thought it was possible what we're doing.  We are so respected, you have no idea how our nation has gone so far up in the eyes it in less than two and a half years.  Two and a half years.  We did it in less than two and a half years.  Some had eight years, one had more than eight years.  More regulation.  And we have regulation, and you need some regulation, but you don't need regulation that doesn't allow you to build a simple road or highway.  So what we've done has been incredible.  That's one of the reasons our job numbers are so good.  If you want your children to inherit the birthright of American Liberty released by Philadelphia to wander free in your communities.  By the way, you may have the worst district attorney or whatever the hell you call it.  This guy, I've been hearing about this guy, he lets killers out almost immediately.  What the hell? How did you let that happen? Instead of handing them over while still in jail, they defied ICE.  They fought with ICE and set him loose upon an unsuspecting family.  Thankfully, at great time and effort, our brave ICE officers were eventually able to track him down, arrest him, detain him, and " I said, "Nope. " I said to the general in charge, I said, "General, can we break the deal?" "Yes, sir, we can.  We have a cancellation clause. " "Good.  General, execute your cancellation clause.  We're not going to buy it.  I'm not going to pay $5. 7 billion for Air Force One.  I'm not doing it. " He said, "Yes, sir.  I'm very proud of this clause. " "Why? Why?" "Because we have the right to cancel. " "Well, do we have to pay anything?" "Yes, sir, $250 million. " I said, Kennedy lost in Massachusetts? You know why? Because he wasn't a radical left.  He was like a semi-normal person, just slightly left.  No, but think of it.  This is what's happened.  And this is really what's happened.  If you're not a radical lefty, meaning guns, meaning fossil fuels, they want wind, wind.  To make the windmill, which are made mostly in China, and in Germany, by the way, to make it, so much emission is let out, that is more than you can ever save.  It's just the craziest thing.  Also, I great.  Thank you.  I want to thank our great vice president, Mike Pence, and Karen Pence, for being here tonight.  It is great to be back in the Twin Cities with the freedom-loving American patriots who make our country run.  You know that.  You know it.  For the next 13 months, think of that, it seems like yesterday, for the next 13 months, we are going to fight with all of our heart and soul, and we are going to win the great state of Minnesota in 2020.  America now has the number phony polls.  I told this story the other night.  For six months, I was hearing that I'm going to lose the state of Texas and friends of mine from Texas that look just like these guys.  See these two guys with the hates? They might even be better looking.  They look just like… And they want to say, "I don't know about you, but I know a lot about Texas and Donald Trump is not going to be losing the state of Texas. " Remember that? See, they don't say it's in play.  They're too at you.  I got you a lot of plants.  Is that right? I mean, have you seen how we're doing here? All the plants that have been built, are being built and what about the plants that are being expanded? They don't want to give you credit for that.  They just expanded.  I went to Prime Minister Abe of Japan.  I say, "Prime Minister, you have to start doing something. " He's a great guy.  He'll be retiring soon.  He's a great guy, the prime minister of Japan, Abe.  I say, "Shinzō, impeach him we're not going to win the election. " This is what we're dealing with.  You know, we're dealing with some very bad people.  We're dealing with people that don't respect you.  And by the way, you know they talk about the elite? You're the elite.  They're not the elite.  You're the elite.  You're the elite.  You got better education.  You got better everything.  You're the elite.  It always bothers me, they said, "The elite. " This is the elite.  Look at these people.  How beautiful.  Ball.  She's doing great.  And Agriculture Commissioner, Ryan Quarles.  With the help of everyone here, America is the hottest economy anywhere in the world, by far.  Foreign leaders come in to see me, "Congratulations on your economy. " China's doing poorly, as you know, but they're paying us billions, and billions, and billions of dollars, and they've never given us 25 cents before.  Billions of dollars.  They gave a lot of that money to our farmers, who got targeted, but no longer.  They're back buying from our farmers.  But we've created 6. have to do it.  We have totally defeated the ISIS caliphate, and I did that in rather quick time if you remember, because we have the greatest fighting machine, now.  When I came in and was totally depleted.  We have great generals, we have great warfighters, and they did it so fast.  I flew to Iraq, I met with the generals, right? I met with the generals.  I said, "I hear it's going to take a year to two years. " "Sir, we can do it in two weeks. " I said, "What?" "They don't into our country.  We will have people coming into our country that never even thought of it before.  You get free education, you get free healthcare, why wouldn't they come? Let's go to America.  The Biden plan would unleash a flood of illegal immigration like the world has never seen.  It's crazy.  Biden's plan is the most radical, extreme, reckless, dangerous, and deadly immigration plan ever put forward by a major party candidate.  It must be defeated, and it will be defeated on November 3rd.  It will be defeated.  At last night's going to be so easy.  I probably would have not been here tonight.  I would have said, "No, we don't have to bother.  This is going to be…" And now we have to work against a guy that doesn't know where he is, I can't believe it.  When I banned travel from China, Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic.  Do you remember that? I banned it.  Everybody told me, "No, no, no, you don't have to do that. " But I said, "We have to because Wuhan is very infected and they're coming here," him up.  And he's a friend of mine.  He's a great guy, Jeremy Roenik.  Where's Jeremy? Where is he? Thank you, Jeremy.  He's a winner.  We're also joined by Donald, Jr.  and Kimberly.  They're great people, great.  And RNC co-chairman, Tommy Hicks.  And RNC finance chairman, also happens on a team called the Chicago Cubs, I shouldn't tell you that… Todd Ricketts.  So finally, it's my great honor to introduce a tremendous person, a great fighter pilot.  A lot of people don't know that.  She's a great fighter Two of the worst deals ever made by our country.  100,000 Mississippi jobs were wiped away just like that, and that's awful, and a big price to pay for Washington's disloyalty to the American worker.  That's what it was.  It was disloyalty, stupidity, corruption, lots of reasons.  But now you finally have a President who is loyal to you, and I am.  I'm a fighter for your jobs, for your wages, your factories, your families, and your dignity.  We're stopping China from ripping us off.  We're stopping all of these other countries from coming and saying, "This isn't working too well.  This isn't working. " And I made a speech a week ago in Texas.  We had crowds that were unbelievable, on the highways, you can't get in, but the highways, it's like incredible.  You could sell your ticket tonight for a lot of money, go to eBay.  Even as a used ticket, you could probably sell.  But you go down the highways and you see it, and I was thinking of Texas, I'm making a speech in front of obviously people that like oil, they like God, and he goes to Oklahoma and he goes to North Dakota and he goes to all these places.  It's not looking so good.  All of a sudden he says, "I have nothing against fracking.  What are you talking about?" But always follow their first instinct because the first instinct is what is going to happen.  And he has to, because he signed … he has a manifesto.  I call it the manifesto with Bernie and AOC plus three, all these crazy people.  And it's a manifesto and it reads far worse than anything Bernie can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp, which is vicious, horrible, ugly, and evil.  Much worse than I thought.  But we're getting there and not pleasant.  A bunch of really bad people, very dishonest people.  With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity.  Together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  We will continue to enact trade deals that result in more products out.  Let's get them all back.  Let's get thel all back.  Don't forget, we're energy independent.  There used to be a reason.  Now we do have a reason, it's called Israel, and we have some very good partnerships over there.  In all fairness we have some countries that have treated us very well and we're going to take care of those countries, but we are energy independent for the first time and that's a very good feeling.  Our military has never been stronger than it is now.  It's new and it's beautiful Ohio, you know that.  A lot of them are coming in.  A lot of them have already been brought in.  They're coming in from Japan, they're coming in from all over the world.  This is where they want to be.  They want to be in the United States.  This is where the action is.  They're all coming back.  I used to go around and talk about how everyone's leaving.  They were all leaving.  A lot of you were victims of that leaving.  These companies would leave, they'd go to center anywhere in the world.  And, when I took over three and a half years ago, there was grass growing in the runways, you know that it was closed down, it was a mess.  We are now the hottest in the world.  You see what's going up.  And, we've got a lot of rich guys sending them up too.  I liked that better.  I said, "Let them do it. " Rich guys like rockets, I don't know, they like rocket, boom.  I see dollars going right up, but they need a good place beautiful clean coal.  I announced the withdrawal of the United States from the horrible, costly, one-sided Paris Climate Accord.  Ask them how they're doing in Paris with it.  Not too good.  I canceled the so called Clean Power Plan, and repealed Obama's federal coal moratorium.  We're putting our great miners back to work.  On trade, we're starting to set records every week, we're reversing decades of Washington disloyalty, stupidity, and corruption.  Past administrations did nothing as China looted our factories, and stole up to $500 billion of American dollars.  By the way, mistake. " It wasn't a mistake.  That's where they're coming from.  Don't be foolish.  That's where they're coming from and there's nothing that Sleepy Joe Biden can do about it.  For years, you had a president who apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for Michigan.  So, get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and your coworkers, and get out and vote.  So important.  From Grand Rapids to Saginaw, from Kalamazoo to Mackinac, and from Flint to right here in falling, and our nation is stronger than ever before.  We're now an economic powerhouse.  We've never been in a position like it.  We've rebuilt our military and we have financial strength.  And by the way, for those of you with a thing called 401ks, the stock market hit, today, another all-time historic high.  Unemployment in Mississippi has reached the lowest rate ever recorded, ever recorded.  That's not bad.  That's not bad when you're on the debate stage and you say, "We have the best economy we've ever had.  We have the best we'll make a fair deal with them.  But what Obama did and Biden did with that horrible Iran deal.  I ended last administration's war on American energy.  Biden has pledged to end production of American oil shale, clean coal, no fracking, wiping out millions of jobs and forcing us to buy energy from foreign polluters.  We don't want to buy energy.  We've done that for a long time, for decades and decades.  We don't want to do that anymore.  I like being energy independent, don't you? And I'm sure that most of you in some form.  He can come with us.  He can stay here.  He can maybe run for governor or maybe do something, Sean Duffy.  Sean Duffy.  No, but he was the World Champion tree climber.  And I love sports, right? Anytime you know the world champion at anything, but especially that, and I'll never forget.  I was asking about it.  "How was it was?" He said, well, he broke his back numerous times.  He broke a lot of bones.  I said, "Let me ask you a question.  How much nothing like it.  Nobody has anything like what we have. " They said, "Is he giving away military information?" No, I'm saying, "We have the greatest weapons in the world. " That's what I'm saying.  They said, "He may be giving away classified information. " You don't have to worry about it.  These people are sick.  Never speak well about our technology because you're giving away classified information.  Now, I just want to let people know, we have the greatest systems, the greatest equipment and the greatest people anywhere in the world.  There's nobody  And you know what? You can't let that happen to your incredible state, Kentucky.  You can't let that happen.  That would be a disaster for yourself because you'd be losing an incredible governor.  But you're going to have a great victory tomorrow.  With your support, you have to go out and vote.  We will show the corrupt Democrats that the American people are not backing down and we will never ever back down.  So tomorrow, we need you to go out and get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors.  Get a little bit, right? I never met him.  And then they said it was eight times, quid pro quo.  That was Adam Schiff.  Shifty Schiff, right? And he went before Congress and he repeated my conversation, except that he made it all up.  Remember he repeated it? And then I said, "Ah, fortunately, we had that whole thing essentially recorded. " I'm glad I did, but these are very deceptive, deceiving, sick people.  And I said, "Well, he lied because there was no quid pro quo. " It was a perfect conversation.  But by the suburbs. " And they wanted Corey Booker to head that program.  But the program was already doing damage.  They were playing with the zoning so they could build projects in the suburb, projects in the suburbs.  And I said, "We're going to end it. " Somebody said, "Sir, let's just amend it. " I said, "Nope, we got to end it.  End it, I want to end it.  I don't want to have a lesser version. " But if he gets in, they will open up that whole program.  They're going to open I withdrew from last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal.  We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi.  We eliminated the world's number one terrorist and mass murderer of American troops, Qasem Soleimani.  He's dead.  He's gone.  Biden voted for the Iraq War.  He opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden.  He opposed killing Soleimani.  He oversaw the rise of ISIS and he cheered the rise of China as a very positive development.  Oh, really? Tell me about it.  Tell me about it.  Not too positive.  greats like Thomas Edison and Frank Sinatra, old blue eyes.  Frank Sinatra.  He was a piece of work, that I can tell you.  New Jersey is the state where George Washington led a die hard band of American patriots to victory at Trenton, and Princeton, and Monmouth.  In our glorious battle to win American independence, George Washington.  This is the state where generations of tough and strong New Jersey craftsmen and dock hands, farmers and factory workers built this country into the single greatest nation on the face of the earth.  And we are immigrants.  And you know, we all have a heart.  We all have a heart, but when you tell people to come into our country, like this clown governor of California, come into our country.  They're all going to come.  If they think they're going to get free education, free healthcare, they're all going to come.  If you don't say it, they're not going to come.  Because who would even think this? Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion.  Ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up until the moment Joe Biden, bin Ladin and Soleimani, would be alive.  ISIS would still be on the rampage and China would now be the dominant power in the world and there not even close, I will tell you.  We have weaponry, the likes of which nobody's seen.  2. 5 trillion buys you some good stuff, especially when we have the finest scientific minds and military minds in the world.  We have weapons, the likes of which nobody's seen, and just hope to God, we never have to use them.  I say that, and I say, it's strongly.  The pandemic.  We don't want to. " We're rounding the turn on the pandemic.  Vaccines are coming soon.  "But we don't want to open.  Around November 4th we're going to open. " This person that's a judge of a union said that.  That was not good.  I think they'll get rid of her quickly.  I'm also proud that we have successfully brought back the Big 10 and the Ohio State Buckeyes.  You better have a good year after all of that.  You have a good team, right? Good coach.  NATO, Stoltenberg, is my biggest fan.  He said, "Until President Trump, you had to see the data across the spending was going like this. " And ours was going like this, we were defending many countries that treat us very badly on trade and very unfairly.  We were defending them and now it's changing, around 100 billion dollars, they're not happy.  And then I read where Obama is more popular in Germany than Trump.  He's got to be, I'm making people pay their bills, he's got to be.  You know, the day that I'm more habit.  You know what the problem is, it's habit.  But the Hispanics get it.  And we're leading with the Hispanic community.  And that's because you had the lowest job numbers in the history of our country.  You had the best home ownership.  Every statistic was the best.  And now we're doing it again, except we're doing it very rapidly.  Remember 8. 4%.  We could have been at 44%, if stupid people ran it, 8. 4%.  I'm fighting for school choice, safe neighborhoods, low taxes and regulations on Hispanic-owned, small businesses. with me, I will tell you.  They never thought it was possible and rebate clauses.  They never thought anybody would do that to them.  They made enough money for a long time.  It's time, you got a big break.  We will strongly protect Medicare and social security.  And, we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions, always, you have a pledge.  We will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  And, NASA is now the hottest space who's been a great warrior and he's doing a fantastic job, I just saw you on television by the way, Bryan.  Does everybody know Bryan Steil? Bryan Steil; young, handsome, but a warrior.  When the fake impeachment happened, it was a total fake, what did we finish up with the Republicans? 197 to nothing, right at the house.  One night, it was a fake impeachment.  I got impeached over a perfect phone call of congratulations to the president of Ukraine, who I never met before.  If you're going to do something, at least know him al-Baghdadi? That's the one I want.  Where is he?" And then, by the way, the following day, we got number two.  I don't know if you read about that.  But he was the founder and the leader of ISIS, and he's dead.  And Baghdadi, he was a Savage and soulless monster, but his reign of terror is over.  American special operators executed a masterful raid that ended his wretched life and punched out his ticket to hell, I guess you could say.  He spent his last miserable moments on Earth cowering and trembling and " "What's the emergency?" "Somebody's calling from the media, the fake news.  Did you put a comma in the wrong location, sir? Because they consider it to be a front page story. " Okay.  Under my administration, we've added nearly 10,000 new factories and many, many more thousands of factories are coming into our country.  We reversed it.  To get relief to working families, we passed massive tax cuts, massive.  To lift up distressed communities, our tax law created opportunity zones.  Tim Scott of South Carolina was so involved, including 144 designated by your or whether we allow sleepy Joe Biden, who doesn't have a clue, to kill the recovery, raise your taxes, delay the vaccine.  So he wants to impose a $4 trillion tax.  Do you believe? 4 trillion.  Ban American energy, which means what? Hey, let's go back.  Let's call up the Middle East and let's be real nice to them because we need their energy.  No, thank you.  Destroy your suburbs.  You know, I got rid of this regulation that was going to destroy your suburbs.  Destroy your suburbs.  I call it you very much.  So I want to start by saying, "Hello, Nevada.  How are you doing? How are you?" And I'm thrilled to be in Douglas County, but people are coming from all over the place.  There's a lot of people for Douglas County, isn't it? We have thousands and thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots, that's what we have.  And 52 days from now, we're going to win Nevada, and we're going to win four more years in the White House.  And then after that we'll negotiate, right? ‘Cause we're probably, based on the differently.  And we brought your jobs back home to North Carolina and our contract.  In three years of President Trump, real median household income rose by almost $7,000.  Now think of that, three years, three years, right? Achieving the highest median income in the history of our country.  This is in three years.  Under 16 years of presidents, Barack Hussein Obama, ladies and gentlemen, is President Barack Hussein Obama, or as Rush Limbaugh, the great, how great is Rush? Do we love Rush? As Rush Limbaugh would say, Barack Hussein Obama.  You ever hear we'll be up to 300 miles of incredible wall.  And our numbers are the best.  We are very tough at the border.  When people want to come in, for our farmers, et cetera, et cetera, we're not going to hurt our farmers, but we've never had better numbers than we have right now.  And that's been helped because we're at a little bit over 280 miles right now, we have never been helped like this.  Wall, there are two things, in a thousand years you can come back, two things will never, with technology it's Christian leader.  Thank you.  But he did say I wasn't perfect, but that's okay.  I said thank you, anyway.  Right? No, that was really great.  That was really great.  Biden- No that was really great.  That was really great.  But if you look at it, the things they've done, we're going to go through a couple of different polls as we go along because I love the people saying do this or do that.  But one of the things I got you out of is this thing sounds so good but 47 years selling out America, offshoring your jobs, throwing open your borders, depleting our military and sacrificing your children's future in China.  I've spent the last four years bringing our jobs back to America, securing our borders, rebuilding our military and standing up to China like never before.  Nobody has ever stood up to China like we have stood up to China, and you haven't seen the last of it.  Sleepy Joe Biden, who surrendered, you know where he is now, he's in his damn basement again.  No, he's in his basement.  He's in his They all said it was impossible to get done, we got it done.  And it's a great deal.  And it prevents people, it prevents companies from fleeing your state, opening up in Mexico or Canada, making a product, selling it to us with… It's such a disincentive to do that.  Now that was the thing that was most important to me.  I used to hate when I'd see all these companies leaving our country, going to Mexico in particular, but Canada also, a lot of them going to Canada and they'd make a product, everybody gets government.  Federal government wants to take them out, or in some cases, if it's real violence, and we don't want to pay for the cost, but we do, put them into very strong jails.  The sanctuary city of Philadelphia.  The sanctuary city in Philadelphia is one of the very worst sanctuaries anywhere in America.  Did you know that? I mean, I know Philadelphia well.  Going to school here, we never heard about sanctuary cities, did we? Weeks ago an illegal alien charged with rape, sexual assault of a child, and inflicting serious bodily injury was be a great Speaker of the House.  Kevin McCarthy will be a great Speaker, watch.  But getting something built when you have a party that controls one of the three, getting it built is … Honestly I don't want to brag, nobody else could have done it.  Nobody else could have done it.  It's The Real Deal wall.  It's the wall that border security wanted.  Remember I thought I could just build concrete slabs? They didn't want that because you have to be able to see through.  I said, "Oh come on. " very much for being here.  We really appreciate it.  Well, we appreciate it.  We appreciate it.  Thank you.  Really incredible people.  But you know, we've created six million new jobs since election day and I couldn't say that in my initial rallies because nobody would have believed it.  Six million new jobs.  More Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our country.  Almost 160 million Americans, nobody would have thought that was possible.  We wouldn't have been able to say it actually.  We've now had effort to divide everyone by race tears us apart.  There's so much racial hatred, and it's put there by CNN, by MSDNC… They stoke the flames and they know it.  The good news is the ratings aren't great.  So that's okay.  They don't have great ratings.  But they stoke the flames.  Uh-oh, CNN just turned off their camera again.  They always turn off their camera.  Why do I keep doing that? Every time I do it, they turn off their camera.  They did it last time.  I mention CNN, they're fracking, right? So he's in these debates with the other people and they're just eating him alive.  He did his best debate against crazy Bernie and I got to ask, why did he get better, all of a sudden? What happened? Why, do you have any idea why? I think I know.  Why did he get better all of a sudden? But he did his last event, but he was so bad.  And he raised his hand, no fracking.  "There will be no fracking under my administration," he said.  And you know why I add just reached another brand new, yesterday, all time low in the history of our country.  How do you lose that debate? Remember I used to say, "Why do you have to lose?" Well, now you have the best unemployment numbers, employment and unemployment numbers, that you've ever had as African-Americans, as Asian-Americans, as Hispanic-Americans.  The best numbers we've ever had, and by the way, African-American youth unemployment has also reached the lowest level ever recorded in history.  And, the labor force participation rate for women is at the highest level now in 15 years, and soon will it was a mess.  We did it in a short period of time, but when we took it over, it was not good.  And last week, the United States once again took the bold and decisive action to save American lives and deliver American justice.  And you know what I'm talking about.  For years, the sadistic mass murderer, Qasam Soleimani, planned and executed attacks against American targets, killing and wounding thousands of US service members and many, many thousands, and even hundreds of thousands, of other people.  As the leader of Iran's terrorist Quds Force, money, folks.  They took advantage of us.  But we have everything we need right now.  We have made such progress in the last three years with pipelines.  The Keystone Pipeline, Keystone XL.  I approved it.  The Dakota Access Pipeline.  I approved it.  48,000 jobs.  We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies.  The worst trade deals any human being has ever seen.  I said, "Who made these deals?" The worst, stupidest deals I've ever seen.  They were good for other nations.  If you like other nations, that's great. recently but pretty recently, and I was out here campaigning for him and working hard, and it turned out to be an easy race because everyone loves him and respects him.  Congressman Pete Stauber.  And a man who gets in the trenches, and he just doesn't care.  He wants to win for the people.  He loves you.  He loves this state.  He loves this country.  Jim Hagedorn.  Thank you.  And a great friend of mine with his incredible family.  He's a friend.  He's smart.  I guess you'd say than Romney, we got 52 to nothing, 52 to nothing.  That's something, and in one case we got 53 to nothing, but I don't even count that to be honest.  The radical left's pathetic partisan crusade has completely failed and utterly backfired with 18 votes… think of that… 18 votes to spare, with a lot of votes to spare.  And also very importantly, as of today, I… we, because it's not we.  It's not I.  It's we.  We're all in this together.  We have the highest poll numbers that we have ever had. down 18% but we have to do better.  18%.  Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens.  They want to let anyone into our country from all around the world.  Just come on in, folks, we're going to give you free healthcare.  We're going to give you free education.  We're going to give you more than our vets are getting.  Every family will get a free Rolls Royce.  You know I said that, Matt.  I said that to them and some of the fake news he stated that if elected, charter schools are gone.  And charter schools have been great.  In a second term, I'll provide school choice to every parent in America.  A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, a limitless future for all Americans.  It's really a vote for the American dream.  That's what it is.  It's the American dream versus the American nightmare.  Instead of letting Washington change us, despite all that we've been through, we are changing Washington.  So in concluding, this wonderful afternoon, and again, Don, thank us, we can never forget that.  We made a great trade deal.  The ink wasn't dry when the plague came in from China.  They stopped it from going into China, but they didn't stop it from going into our country, Europe and the rest of the world.  Okay? They could have done that.  But you see, I deal with all of these people, and they don't have the kind of mental problem that Sleepy Joe has.  They're very sharp.  Kim Jong-un.  Kim Jong-un doesn't know about the problems that Joe has.  guns.  How about guns? No guns.  No second amendment.  Biden has pledged to a point prosecutors who extend these insane far left policies nationwide.  That's what he's done.  That's called the manifesto.  He agreed to all this stuff.  The craziest thing, you're supposed to bring it to the right.  He actually brought it further left.  Bernie never dreamt that this was possible, crazy Bernie.  Do you know crazy Bernie? I had a lot of his voters come to me four years ago, a big percentage.  You know why? Because dollars.  We would have had to close up, I think, at least 25% to 30% of our businesses.  Who the hell would make a deal like that, right? Who would make a deal like that? No, how unfair.  You look at Russia.  You look at China.  You look at India.  They all got these massive breaks.  We got no breaks, and we're paying money.  I say sometimes to France, "How are the yellow vests working out?" Because they don't like raising their taxes and sending the money to faraway places that they'd in the USA by the way, We have the newest, finest military we've ever had, and gave our great warriors their largest pay raises in many, many decades.  We passed VA Choice and VA Accountability which everybody said could not happen, and veterans satisfaction with the VA has just reached 91%, the highest satisfaction level in history.  I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal as I said, and I kept my promise and recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the United States embassy in Jerusalem.  And then I recognized Israeli sovereignty over are.  Many are fine people and all of that, but some are stone cold rapists, and murderers, and people that their countries don't want, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, and even Mexico.  Right now we have a love affair with Mexico because the Democrats, the Democrats wouldn't give us what we needed and I got Mexico, they're great.  They put up 27,000 soldiers on our Southern border and the numbers are plummeting, 87% down.  The president of Mexico is doing a great job.  And we ended Catch and Release.  You think that was easy? Catch can lead America, that will not teach our children to love America.  No party can do that.  The sleepy campaign has joined forces with those trying to tear down America and our way of life.  We have a great way of life, and getting better all the time.  Look at what we've done.  Biden's running mate urged supporters to help bail rioters out of jail, including one who attempted murder.  That's right.  One who attempted to murder a police officer, and a man accused of sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl, 13 members of came in and I spent like 45 minutes talking about how you've been ripped off, how all your auto companies are leaving and going to Mexico and, by the way, to Canada too.  But how they're all leaving and going to Mexico and Canada.  I spent the whole time talking about it.  At the end I felt embarrassed, I said, "I hope I haven't insulted the state too much, but why do you let this happen?" I stopped it.  I stopped.  It won't be happening.  It won't be happening.  It's not going to 47-year period.  Joe Biden is weak.  He's supported every globalist sellout of North Carolina, the workers, what he's done.  And when I say, "him", it's him and people in his little group that … You've achieved so much over a period of time.  He sold it out.  Look at NAFTA.  How bad was NAFTA? China's entry into the World Trade Organization.  TPP would have destroyed our car industry.  And of course, he joined and wanted to join the Paris Climate Accord.  That's another beauty.  That would have cost you trillions Vegas.  We love Las Vegas.  Thank you everybody.  Thank you. So thank you Pennsylvania, very much.  I'm thrilled to be in Latrobe, the home of the late, great, my friend, Arnold Palmer.  What a great guy he was.  What a great guy.  Thank you very much.  61 days from now, we're going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and we are going to win four more years in the White House.  Joe Biden wants to surrender your jobs to China.  You know that.  His son walked out with a trying to do, if that happened to Obama, or a Democrat, or especially a liberal Democrat, they'd be in jail for 50 years and it would have taken place two years ago already.  They spied on our campaign.  Remember that.  After they spied, we won.  Then after we won, they tried to get us out of office.  It's never happened before in the history of our country, and we can't let that happen.  We can never ever excuse it.  We can never let them get away with that.  Never let them get that disgusting newspaper that's right there, The Washington Post, declared the campaign to impeach President Trump has just begun.  All right, you can get them out.  Be gentle, be gentle.  Be very gentle.  You know every time I say, get them out of here, I end up getting sued.  They say, he hurt my arm.  All right.  So be very gentle, please.  I don't want to get sued.  Be very gentle.  Very, very gentle.  He's going home to mom.  Thank you.  By the way, do we love so important to me. " He's a great businessman, very successful.  He said, "You deal with all of these nations, these great, powerful … Who is the worst to deal with? Is it China? Is it North Korea? Is India? Is it Russia? Please tell me, Mr.  Pres, who is the toughest nation to deal with?" I said, "You're not going to believe this.  It's the USA is the toughest nation to deal with. " The USA.  It's true.  Because we're dealing with some very sick and deranged people.  There is nothing that the speech and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep … You know this, right? It's okay, right? We will keep America out of these ridiculous foreign wars.  We will maintain American's unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength.  It's about time.  We will end surprise medical bills, require price transparency, and further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs, which we're doing an unbelievable job on, other than the fact that the drug companies are spending a reduced illegal border crossings seven straight months in a row.  We have the numbers down by 75% since spring, 75%.  We have ended catch and release and really, look, I had another party.  I could get anything.  If I wanted to spend money on anything, look with the military, we got two trillion dollars, right? More.  Two trillion, all made in America, right? Everything.  Best planes, best missiles, best everything, made in America.  If I wanted to build anything, the only thing they put the whole weight of their party, they didn't want now Biden is recklessly campaigning against his vaccine.  His campaign campaign's really reckless.  And all it is is for political reasons.  It's political reasons.  Biden, his whole deal is catastrophic shutdown.  We're getting better, we're really coming along, and he's talking about shutting down.  We're not doing any shutdowns.  We don't need shutdowns.  Maybe a little area, if it's such a spike, we understand, we have to take care of our senior citizens.  This guy talked, he said, "Well, I'll do whatever my medical people want.  I believe in science. Do we have any baseball fans? Right? Right? You know what I'm going to say.  But earlier today in the White House, I had the honor of awarding the Presidential Medal of Freedom, that's the highest civilian award, to someone who truly embodies the American dream, baseball legend, the greatest, by the way, the greatest relief pitcher of all time, you look at those records, Mariano Rivera.  He was something.  The Yankees won a lot of World Series because of Mariano.  Great guy.  We gave him the medal.  Done so much for charity.  somebody in the fake news media did a story yesterday because there's crazy chances going on.  They have too about the seat and all that.  But there was another chant that's happening at all these rallies.  We're having massive rallies.  We're in Minnesota.  We had a tremendous crowd.  Wisconsin, tremendous.  Pennsylvania, every one of them.  I mean, in all fairness, it's like this, everyone.  But this rant is going on like it's crazy.  And it's, "We love you.  We love you.  We love you," and you know what? energy that drives our economy, and wage an under… If you look at what's going on your way of life is under assault by these people.  I mean, I go out and sometimes I'll get these huge audiences, and I wish we could've gotten a large arena than this.  We tried.  I was even willing to stand out in the rain and get my hair soaking wet, but they said it was a little bit out of your district, and I said, "I don't know if it looks good being out of your district. " But I people will take the last little sliver and the first little sliver and they'll put it, because they're so damn dishonest, and they'll just say- … "Let's use Ukraine for help. " That's what they're going to say.  And they won't show the laughter, and they won't show the sarcasm, and they won't show the fun because they're the most dishonorable people almost on earth.  It's a disgrace.  But we say it anyway.  And here's the good news.  The people get it.  So they have a brand new president in Ukraine.  Good guy, your devotion and your drive.  We are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one great movement.  One people, one family and one glorious nation under God.  And together we are making America wealthy again.  We are making America strong again.  We are making America safe again.  And we are making America great again.  Thank you.  New Hampshire.  Thank you.  Thank you. Hello, everybody.  Hello, everybody.  Wow.  Hello, and then everyone leaves with them, and she's still speaking in front of the same lousy crowd.  It's the craziest thing I've ever seen.  And then they complain.  Sometimes I'll use terrible word like hell.  The other day I used the word hell.  I got hell from… They said, "He used terrible language. " I used the word hell.  It was so bad.  But you've got to hear Jay Z, the words he was using, he was using the F word all over the place, and then the next day they say I think he'll come in with a mask.  I don't know.  I have no idea.  Well, the question is, will he leave it on during the debate? Because it's a little hard and I'm all for mask when you need them, I'm up, but when you're making a speech and the nearest person's like where you are and you're in a stage all by yourself and then he had a habit of taking it off and it hangs down on his ear as he's speaking, it makes him feel comfortable.  Honestly, whatever makes you feel good is of presidents get none.  We've had three.  It's blowing their minds.  It's blowing their minds, but for the people of Ohio, this is what you want.  So, it looks like we're going to have three and it's going to be very exciting.  It's exciting even from me.  I'm going to look forward to it.  Probably Saturday, we will announce the nominee and it's somebody that you're going to have great respect for, great respect.  Thank you.  Big stuff.  That's a big thing.  They set the course of our country the Golan Heights, and we achieved the first breakthrough in the Middle East peace for many, many decades, decades.  Even the New York Times said that was an amazing achievement.  Do you believe that? I said, "Let me see that one. " Now we did something that nobody thought was possible.  Man, it's Israel, as you see, and as you've read, Israel and UAE, highly respected leader, Mohammed, highly, highly respected, and now we have other countries in the Middle East.  They all want to come in.  It's going to be a beautiful picture, going incompetent people.  Brought back our manufacturing jobs, rebuilt the awesome power of the U. S.  military and obliterated the ISIS caliphate.  We open obliterated it.  Obama was not able to do it, he wasn't able to come close.  It was just announced that in 2019, before the virus came in from China, we grew median income by a record of $4,400 in just one year, achieving the highest median income in U. S.  history.  That's in the history of our country.  In the first three years, we lifted six point six million I'm always surprised.  Make America great again I think is the greatest phrase ever used in politics, right? But under the Trump economy, the lowest paid earners are reaping the biggest, fastest, and largest games.  You know that right? This is a blue collar boom.  They don't like telling you that.  Under my administration, the growth in net worth for the bottom half of wage earners has increased 15 times more than under the three previous administrations.  That's pretty amazing.  Because they keep saying, oh, the rich are getting richer.  Well, the poor a vote for any Democrat tomorrow in North Carolina is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and a destruction of the American dream.  We are entering this campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for the people of North Carolina.  And I've said it and I say it loudly and proudly, I don't believe there's been any president or any administration that has done more in 2. 5 years then we have as a group in America.  When you add it all up, nobody's done what popular than him, I'm not doing my job.  The big story, they like him more in Europe than they like Trump.  I think they should.  100 billion dollars more they're paying.  To protect America's security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran Nuclear Deal.  We paid them 150 billion dollars for that piece of work.  I withdrew it and we put sanctions all over the place and they're a much different country and let's see what happens.  But I can tell you they'd like to get back to business because would have ended up in a massive recession or worse, the D word, depression.  We would have been, because they were going to put more and more and more regulations on.  And I'll tell you, maybe bigger than even the tax cuts, and I did it sooner, were the regulation cuts.  We freed up our nation to go back to work.  True.  So then we won Wisconsin, and then we won Michigan because those companies, now they're pouring back in.  The auto companies are pouring back in, and Wisconsin's doing great with the farmers home and they die.  What we did is a thing called Right to Try.  People sign something and they don't hold the country responsible.  They don't hold the drug company responsible.  It's called Right to Try, and they get the newest, and the best, and the latest medicine where it's looking good, but you're not going to have it for five more years, and you know why they didn't do it? Because they didn't want to hurt anybody, except the problem is the people were going to die soon.  I said, "They're terminally ill.  natural gas anywhere in the world.  And for all of these crazy people, but they're not so crazy, they know what they're doing, that talk about Russia, Russia, Russia.  Russia's not too happy about that.  Their primary source of income is oil and gas, and now we're bigger than Russia, bigger than Saudi Arabia.  We're bigger than everybody, and we're doing great.  So they're not exactly happy.  The Russian Hoax, was a pure hoax, you saw that with Comey the other day.  Yet every leading Democrat running for president pledges to ban the it's so bad.  It's a rip off of our country.  The so-called Paris Climate Accord.  It's a disaster, a death sentence.  It's a death sentence for your energy jobs.  I took it out.  I withdrew from that calamity.  Biden pledged to reinstate it.  It's going to cost you billions and billions of dollars.  You know what it really is? It's a way of really taking advantage of the United States.  This is what it is.  Last year I visited the Shell Petrochemical Plant in Beaver County.  Anybody ever result, 1/124th.  I think I win the bet.  Somewhere along the line, I think I win.  No, she… I did it too early.  I would have saved it, but I guess it was effective.  She's essentially gone-zo, so… One of those things.  While the socialist Democrats are try- … one of those things.  While the socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare and your social security, my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare.  And that's what we're getting.  That's right. like we did last time.  But I really believe we'd be up 20 points.  I mean, all they do is negative, negative, phony stuff.  Russia, Russia, Russia.  The impeachment hoax.  That's a hoax.  But you know, we had great support from the Republican party in the House.  It was 197 to nothing.  And in the Senate, it was 52 and-a-half to a half.  You know what the half was? A halfwit.  And while the extreme left has been wasting America's time with the hoaxes, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, aliens, even convicted criminals, and they support deadly sanctuary cities that release these criminal aliens directly into America's communities.  Thankfully, Arizona has banned sanctuary cities.  With a Republican majority in Congress, we will ban them in every state in America.  30 in the morning.  I then went to California, made two speeches.  I then went someplace else.  I said, "Am I finished?" No, you've got to go to Arizona tonight and speak in front of like 25,000 people.  I said, "That's okay.  That's okay. " I said, "That's okay. " No, I to know my administration is fighting for you each and every day.  I want to recognize US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster and Minister Jaishankar of India.  Thank you very much.  Thank you both.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  We're also proudly joined by NASA Deputy Administrator Jim Morhard, Deputy Secretary Of Energy Dan Brouillette, Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky, your state attorney general, Ken Paxton, a couple of very great senators.  Kevin, thank you.  Thank you all for being here.  Thank you, Kevin.  Thank you.  We have trafficking in men.  They capture women, and they bring them across the open borders, and they don't go through ports of entry, where you have guards standing there with guns and rifles and everything else.  They go out into the desert areas, and they hang a left, or they hang a right and they come in, but now when you have a wall, they can't do that.  Right? They can't do that.  And so many of these Democrats that are against the wall, it's common sense? Look, you know what I saw the other day? Where patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and defend our great freedom.  Nevada was founded by pioneers and prospectors, miners and cowboys, innovators and trailblazers who tamed the frontier, raised up the mighty Hoover Dam, transformed a sprawling desert into a shining oasis and inspired the world with the brilliant lights of the Vegas Strip.  Our American ancestors made this into the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth, and we are going to make it greater than ever before.  That's what we're doing.  Proud citizens not government bureaucracy.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust.  We live by those words, in God we trust.  From Cambridge, good old Cambridge.  Who's from Cambridge here please? Cambridge.  What the hell do I mention it for when there's two people here? Can I say it anyway? I'll say it anyway.  Good place Cambridge.  Good, he said it's amazing.  Well, from Same exact test.  And it may even be better, who knows? We're approving more generic drugs than ever before at any time in the history of our country.  That's bringing prices down.  We are defending your right to keep the doctor and to keep your plan.  Remember President Obama, you could keep your plan.  You could keep 28 times.  You can keep your doctor.  That didn't turn out very good.  We should impeach him for that.  Why aren't we impeaching him? 28 times, you can keep your doctor.  We should extremists will understand- Message these radical socialists and extremists will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd, 2020.  With your help, we will win back the House, we will keep the Senate and we will win the White House.  And we're thrilled to be joined tonight by some incredible people that have helped me so much.  One of your tremendous talented, tough, Congressman Tom Emmer.  Tom.  Also a man, you don't want to fight him, and you don't want to play him in hockey because he was tough.  He just won, not that anything like that.  This has been your greatest.  This has been prior to the plague coming in.  It's been the Commonwealth's greatest.  Can we ever call the Commonwealth a state? You have two places.  But you always have to say, well, wait a minute.  Is this one a Commonwealth? Two places.  You know what the other place is? Name it.  Huh? That's right.  How did you know that, Congressmen? Huh? But this Commonwealth, it's a great Commonwealth.  It's a great place.  And the boilermakers, local union, it's Local 154 will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, ending the AIDS epidemic in America and finding new cures for childhood cancer.  Something I never thought I'd be able to say, within one decade the AIDS epidemic in the United States will be gone.  Think of that.  Did you ever think you were going to hear that? No.  Did you ever think you were going to hear that? The work they've done on AIDs is incredible.  That's an incredible thing.  When they told me that, it's just shattering.  It just, it breaks your heart of work and the sanctity of life.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep America out of these endless ridiculous foreign wars, all coming back.  We will maintain America's unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength, two and a half trillion dollars, have the strongest military we've ever had, beautiful brand new equipment.  When I took it over, it was totally depleted, our military.  We have the greatest equipment that any  And for years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  You saw that.  They apologized.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Arizona.  At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation.  It is.  This election is so important.  It's the survival of our nation.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory Think of that.  Real median income.  Under eight years, so we're here three years right, but really less because when it was done, the stats, it was two and a half.  But we have less than three.  Under eight years of the Bush administration, household incomes grew $400.  Eight years, $400.  Under eight years of president Obama, household incomes grew $975,000.  That's okay, 975.  Eight years, right? Under three years of the Trump administration, household incomes have risen $10,000.  Ten thousand.  That's why we're doing well.  The consumer.  want to see a president in a position like that, where we may have conflict, and a general looks at him and said, ‘We have very little/ no ammunition. '" I never want a president of the United States to be in that position.  And since then, three years, $700 billion we've spent, then $716 billion.  And now, $738 billion.  And our military is by far the greatest in the world.  There's nobody that even comes close.  So anyway, no president should ever be put in that position.  And by the way, no president  Right, I called Russia.  I called Saudi Arabia and believe it or not, I called Mexico.  Mexico was a little bit tough.  That's called OPEC Plus, did you ever hear of OPEC Plus.  That's OPEC Plus plus.  And we got them to do the right thing and we have our energy back to almost $40 a barrel, meaning you have an energy business again.  Almost $40 a barrel.  Couple of months ago, it was zero and we were going to lose 10 million energy jobs, 10 million jobs.  So Texas and let us fight, sir.  They don't let us fight.  We want to fight.  They don't let us fight. " I said, "I let you fight. " I said, "How come if they say it's going to take anywhere from a year to two years, you say you can do it so quickly?" He said, "Sir, we're going to hit them from the front.  We're going to hit them from the back.  We're going to hit them from the sides, from underground, from overground.  We going to hit the hell out of them. " And I believe instead of being up massively, whatever the number is, but depending on who you are, changes, but it's all way over 60, 70, 80, you guys know.  You would have been down 50, 60, 70.  You would have been down at a level, you would probably be extremely depressed, right now.  You wouldn't have bought all those brand new keep America great hats.  Don't worry, we're never getting rid of MAGA, don't worry.  We don't have the courage to get rid of MAGA.  The greatest campaign in history.  We're never leaving. are doing incredibly and women… the men are going to get angry.  Sorry men.  Whoa, look at all those signs.  Women for Trump.  Wow, thank you.  That's a lot of signs.  You remember last election, Donald Trump will never ever get the women.  Then we got this tremendous number of women.  We got this tremendous number of women, and during the election night, they say, "What's going on?" you know it's called suppression polls.  Suppression.  Polls are just as fake as the news itself, but women filled 60%, and I'm pilot and a warrior Senate.  She helped us so much during the impeachment hoax, she didn't wobble one bit, Martha McSally.  You know, Martha's tough on the border.  And she's working with me to strengthen our military still further, and lower your prescription drug prices.  We're making a lot of progress.  But her opponent, I have to say this Martha, a guy named Mark Kelly.  Even the Democrats don't like him much.  He wants to raise your taxes, open your borders, give away free healthcare to illegal immigrants, and he wants to obliterate some Republicans, they're not good.  You call them a rhino.  They're rhinos.  The rhinos are worse, and some of them are worse than the Obama people, right? They're worse than the Obama people.  They're worse than the Clinton people, but there aren't too many of them left.  They're pretty much on respirators.  They're gasping.  They're gasping for air, but we do have some bad people that you wouldn't believe.  I didn't hear you.  Why did you say why? What? I didn't hear that.  Virtually, every top Democrat also now supports their jails and directly onto your streets where they are free to rob, attack and murder American citizens.  You have it right here.  You have it right here.  Last year, ICE … I love ICE.  I think they're so great.  You know, they moved thousands of MS-13 out of our country, thousands, and others too.  But ICE officers in this region of our country arrested nearly 7,000 illegal aliens with criminal records.  So you have 7,000 illegal aliens having criminal records, including those charged or convicted of murder, burglary, robbery, drug crimes, killings " I'm not sure.  We try, I'll tell you that and we're winning now.  But this crazy woman who's got zero going, zero.  She said, "Donald Trump lost his debates that he won. " You know, she was talking about how badly Benny Mike did.  So she said, "Well, Donald Trump. " No, I won every single debate.  I won them against crooked Hillary.  I won them in the primaries like 15 or 16 debates.  And for some reason, you know, sometimes you do say, it's not a big deal.  Nobody watches they said, "He said this," with no sources, no nothing.  They got nothing.  And I have 25 real witnesses with the names, with everything, saying it never happened.  And they put an ad like that up, they're a disgrace.  But you know the good part? Now I can be really vicious.  I can be really vicious.  And we'll start by saying, we're going to start by saying that the Democrats are trying to rig this election because it's the only way they're going to win.  The only way they're going to win is a great city, San Francisco.  What's happened? And all she does is work on the hoax and work on all of the stuff.  Really, these people are very, very bad for our country.  We have to take back the House of Representatives, we have to.  Registered Democrats and Independents are leaving the Democrat party in droves, and we are welcoming these people, and these great voters, to the Republican Party with wide, open arms.  And we are thrilled to be joined tonight by a lot of your great leaders, a lot of your really wonderful not lying about Sleepy Joe, they're lying about us, and I don't know if I'm supposed to love that or hate it, I don't know if it's an insult or not but I will take it.  We don't give a damn.  If that's the case, we have a virtual landslide going.  We have a virtual landslide and this would look like it it would have been terrible, but you know what? Fortunately we had really talented people taking down everything word for word.  We had the call perfectly and if I didn't have it, somehow with see what happens here.  It's like the plane times 50.  So the cars are driving all over to about a 20 minute drive and we get to the hospital, I get out.  I was there probably for an hour and a half, two hours.  And then yesterday I read that I had strokes.  CNN, fake news CNN right there.  No, it's true.  Mini strokes they called them.  I don't know what a mini stroke is, but it's not good.  And there could be a day and I'll admit, I said "Hey, because he really doesn't believe, truly, in our country.  But I think that's a very strong statement.  I don't think he has a clue.  I'll be honest.  The people that push him around don't believe in our country, because he agreed to a manifesto with crazy Bernie, right? It's called the manifesto.  You know why it's called the manifesto? Because this is beyond socialism.  This is a word that starts with a C, not and S.  That's where they're coming from.  That's where they're coming from.  At Biden's convention they decried an election with a 53? The answer is yes, when the other side cheats.  That could happen, that could happen.  That could happen.  You saw what happened in Pennsylvania.  Some state supreme court justice just ruled that they can take as long as they want to count the ballots.  That means I'll be leading and winning Pennsylvania like we did last time.  Yeah, yeah.  We'll be leading, we'll be winning Pennsylvania.  We're going to win it easy.  We're going to win your state easily.  And Deb, what a great, she's have tens of thousands of people there.  There's never been this.  Ronald Reagan was great.  I thought he was a great guy, great president, didn't like his policy on trade.  That's okay.  Trade.  But if he came to Las Vegas, you know they'd have a ballroom, and they'd have 500, maybe a thousand people.  What we're doing… And this isn't even, I must say this, I don't want to tell you this, this is not election season.  Because we're nine months away.  Election season is when you're two months away.  you.  We will be there with you every single step of the way.  I just left the Coast Guard hanger at Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base where I was briefed on the Texas flooding.  We're working with your great governor Greg Abbott, Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick, Attorney General Ken Paxton and senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz.  Thank you very much.  We're working hard together.  My administration will not rest until you have fully recovered, restored, and rebuilt and I know you will come back with the same tremendous spirit that we have shown I see you're up in the polls, Congressman Richard Hudson, great guy.  Where's Richard? Great guy.  He's a warrior.  And two people I really liked, because we fought like hell for them a year ago, right? And they had guts, and they had what it takes.  They didn't choke.  You know, a lot of people choke.  They choke, they gag, they can't breathe.  Greg Murphy and Dan Bishop, they didn't choke, they're fantastic.  They are fantastic people.  Thank you.  Look, they're friends.  We're friends.  Those two guys were law as written, including we appointed two great Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  And to help patients with life threatening illnesses we also pass something I'm so proud of, 44 years they couldn't get it passed, right to try.  You can use our newest, our best medicines.  Incredible.  What's happening.  I'm so proud of that.  And this from forever, five decades.  We pass for our great veterans VA choice and VA accountability.  And one of our great friends was a veteran who's been with me in New Hampshire.  families in danger.  He will totally destroy Social Security.  And in my opinion, if you look at what he's going to do to Medicare, they will destroy Social Security.  They will.  You called it.  You know what you're talking about? Exactly, right.  He's going to massively raise your taxes.  Reimpose crippling federal regulations, destroy your Social Security and destroy protections for pre-existing conditions.  He's going to destroy that and decimate your 401ks and retirement savings and stocks.  Your stocks are going to go down like you never saw anything go down going to use that. " I like it when they say, "You no longer can fly airplanes.  No longer can you have any cows in meadows.  Right? No longer can you do anything. " We can't do anything anymore.  The Green Deal, I love it.  I think it's great.  It should be debated.  It should be debated rally it's a month before.  You'll get to hear the real facts.  But I'm tired of talking about this 10 months before the election.  They can do more with the tape than they can 310 miles of border wall.  It's all going to be finished very quickly.  We're averaging about 10 new, brand new, beautiful miles every single week.  It'll be finished very short.  We've invested $2. 5 trillion in the US military.  All made in the USA, by the way.  All made in the USA.  You know, with the fake news today, I said, "And we have systems and missiles and rockets and military and tech.  We have systems that you've never even seen before.  President Xi has nothing like it.  Putin has figure out who is their weakest candidate? I think they're all weak if you want to know the truth.  We proudly welcome and embrace voters of all parties and political persuasions who want to join our mission.  A very simple mission, remember? Make America great again.  And then after we make it great again, which we already have… We've had 141 days where the stock markets have reached their all-time historical high.  141, think about it.  Out of three years, 141.  And to me, I view it differently.  Well, look at your 401ks. new plan for peace.  We're going to see if we can get that done.  It's one of the toughest deals of all.  One of the toughest deals but we have a shot at it.  For years you watched as your politicians apologized for our country.  They apologized.  They would say, "I'm sorry. " Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Iowa.  We are standing up for Iowa.  At stake in our present battle is the survival, frankly, of haunt him.  America wasn't great.  Him and his brother, Fredo.  You ever watch Fredo? His ratings aren't very good, so you probably don't.  But we know the truth.  America's the most exceptional nation on Earth.  And our destiny is blessed by God.  We love this nation with all of our heart and soul, and we will always take care of our nation.  You know, we have a little expression, "Make America Great Again. " That's what's happened.  And you know, we had it done.  Now I say, "Make America Great half years.  So it's not like they haven't been here.  He was a vice president for eight years and he only did one thing good.  He treated Obama good.  I was going to say something else, but they would have scolded me.  That's exactly what I was going to say, but I didn't.  It's better than you say it.  Do you want to shout it out? Go ahead, shout.  That's what I said, that's what I was … thank you very … This can only happen in Nevada.  And we pass very hard right now.  We're providing more than $43 million in federal funds to help homeowners, businesses and communities in central Michigan to recover from that catastrophe.  Thank you.  Perhaps in no area have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds than on the subject of immigration.  Under my administration, we've achieved the most secure border in American history.  We've ended catch and release, stopped asylum fraud, and we've deported over 20,000 vicious gang members and over a half a million criminal illegal aliens.  As I said, we've already built over reported by these fakers.  We got $130 million more, more, not total, more, going to, over three years, $400 billion.  So we're going from 130 billion, with a B, not million, to $400 billion.  And they said to me, they said … And they said to me, they said to me, very nice guy, head of one of the countries, at a table.  I can't believe it never got released, but now we can talk about it, because it's three years ago.  But they said, "Sir … " And this was a big private meeting anymore. " And you're not going to want to lose your 401k's.  And you're not going to want to lose all of that wealth that you've accumulated, whether it's real estate wealth or any wealth you can think because it'll all come tumbling down if these people are put in charge.  And if they double and triple and quadruple your taxes, it will be a whole different ball game.  So I'm not putting any pressure on anybody, but in the end, we're going to have a phenomenal economy.  And next year we're going to have a go around.  I would've lost and lost billions, then I would have been really unhappy.  But I'll tell you what, I expected that when I did this, in terms of opportunity, in terms of certain places, they can never do as well when you have this kind of rhetoric, they can never do.  So I'll lose billions of dollars, always expected.  They say, I enrich myself because somebody is going to stay at my hotel.  It doesn't work that way folks.  And these are very, very dishonest people, and they know it.  So No way. " The next week they said, "$4. 8. " I said, "Nope.  It's got to have a 3 at the front of it.  Don't you understand, you dumb son of a bitch? Don't you understand?" I turned out to be right.  Turned out to be right.  Nobody gets that.  Nope.  Got to have a three.  Next day, they come back, "$4. 5 is our best offer. " "Nope.  I'm not doing it.  I'm not doing it.  Come back when you're ready. " A month goes by, another month,  How many times- How many events? He's been to a couple.  That's really great.  Thank you very much.  I've seen him before.  He's been here a couple of times, like about 90.  Thank you, man.  That's really nice.  I'm going to get one of those jackets.  By the way, the wall.  The wall, yeah, 330 miles.  330 miles.  330 miles.  And yes, we have a great relationship with Mexico.  First they said, "He'll never be able to build it. " The Democrats were just brutal.  day, you know, we had a victory in North Carolina that was unbelievable.  Two of them.  One of them, it was going to be very, very close.  Here's another one of my friends.  Thank you.  I like that beautiful red tie you're wearing.  But we had a victory, two victories, North Carolina, where one was 17 points down three weeks ago, we got involved, we started sending out lots of different social media messages, we did a couple of little robo calls, but the big thing, we did a speech the night before.  they've done it.  All over the country, the sheriffs of Florida, all of Texas, all over the country, Ohio, law enforcement's endorsing Trump.  I cannot imagine them getting any law enforcement endorsements.  If they do, please let me know and we'll have a little discussion.  We'll ask why did that happen? They want to end school choice and ban charter schools.  They want to abolish American energy, including all of the things I said before.  And add to that coal and add to that shale.  A vote for Republicans is a vote for We're not going to put up with it.  But we will keep, "In God we trust. " For years, you had a president who apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of North Carolina.  This is the most important election we've ever had.  Remember it.  We're going to be a socialist country.  We're going to be a communist country.  These people are further … they're much further left than socialism.  These people are sick.  So get your They've lost.  So by the way, we're up to 330, the exact wall.  Their dream choice.  I said to the border patrol, I love these people, they're great, ICE, the border patrol, what they do is incredible.  They're incredible.  I said, "Give me your dream wall, as long as we're building we might as well build a wall that you want.  Let's build it right. " "Sir, we have to have vision.  We need steel and concrete. " I said, "How about one or the other?" They said, "No, sir, we need steel States of America, the president.  I guarantee he's got a lot of people listening, too.  These people are sick.   no pressure.  They must think we're nuts, to be honest.  It's all a phony deal, this whole impeachment scam, to try to undermine the 2020 election and to de-legitimatize one of the greatest elections, maybe the greatest … I mean, let's give George Washington credit, but everybody expected he was going to win, that we've ever had.  So my phone call, which was totally perfect and appropriate, and if you want to read the  You know we got it back, right? We got big 10.  But the soldier story, about standing over their graves, you know the one I'm talking about, then they do a commercial.  And I said, the good news about that is the gloves are off.  I can now call him grossly incompetent, the man is incompetent.  He's been there for 47 years, he didn't do a thing.  Now all of a sudden, in years where he was never considered smart, but now he's really not considered smart.  And now all of a sudden get better doctors, you get lower prices.  I said, "When does it start?" It's a complicated … Oh, did I get, I was fought.  You have no idea.  Right fellows? You have fought too.  But they fought me on this price transparency.  It's bigger than healthcare, could be bigger than healthcare.  But I said, "When does it start?" They said, "Sir, we have it all set. " "When?" "January 1st," "I said, I'd better win this election," because you're going to see some unbelievable price reductions.  That includes on drugs, because we're reducing it's criminal, they're criminals.  They talk and talk and talk, they're criminals.  They clean their phone, so you don't have any of the information, but that's a big problem for them, I would imagine.  It's a disgrace that they can do it.  But, Hillary got rid of… She deleted and acid-wash, right.  Who acid-washed? Did you ever… And, she also used to bang them with a hammer, remember that, we forgot that, right.  So, let's see what happens with all of that stuff.  I think Bill Barr's doing an excellent job, I have a little complex, they can turn them around, or when Zucker sees him and said, "Why did you put that? I want that deleted and I want you to do a different one. " But he did say that.  So I respect that because it's another hoax story.  But we're standing up for the defense of our constitution, for our freedom, and democracy itself.  You know that.  I got to get that.  Hey, Bobby? Bobby? See that guy? I love that shirt.  Bobby, I don't know.  He looks like a nice guy.  at the UFC and they've been big fans of us.  They love our country.  They love our country.  And we loved them and nobody like our Dana.  Thank you Dana, very much.  Great honor.  Thank you, man.  Tonight, we're also praying for everyone throughout the West affected by the devastating wildfires.  We want really forest management, we want forest management… My administration is closely coordinating with the state and local leaders, with the governor and we thank the more than 28,000 firefighters and first responders courageously braving the danger and their life, the building, when you do your renovation.  Everything, wrap it in Jerusalem stone. " So I think we ended up spending, to fix up the building, like $500,000.  Can you believe it? We were going to spend 1. 1 billion, and by the way, it would never get built.  It wouldn't be built in 20 years from now.  And they like it so much, they gave up the plan.  They think this is better.  It's a better location, it's probably a better building.  But I could tell you stories like that all night  And you say, what's happening? And we want to send them in so badly.  Joe Biden and his party spent the entire summer cheering on the rioters rampaging through a Democrat run cities falsely labeling them as peaceful protesters.  And you know, we call you peaceful protesters, you know why? Because they have rules in these Democrat run states that if you're campaigning, you can't have more than five people.  They- That if you're campaigning you can't have more than five people.  They did that for me.  If you are going to church you out by the thousands and they're tough.  They're tough, but our ICE folks are even tougher.  There's nobody tougher.  I would say naive, but maybe it's much worse than that.  They're naive, these politicians.  The naive politicians, they don't want ICE to come in.  They don't want to take these criminals out.  And if you don't take them out and they're in New Mexico, I got to tell you something, folks.  You got problems.  You got problems.  You've got big problems.  Republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for younger than that, I must say.  You have Mayor Pete.  I mean, give me a break.  Can you believe Mayor Pete? This is going to be the President of the United States? How would he be against negotiating against President Xi of China? We just made one hell of a deal.  You're going to see the numbers very soon, you know? One hell of a deal.  They didn't like those tariffs.  Thanks to Republican leadership, America is winning again, and America, most importantly, is respected again, respected like never before.  You know, for socialists.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream.  Every day they're making good on the motto, "Promise made, promises kept. " In fact, we are keeping even more promises by far than we made, or than we promised.  So many more.  So many more.  So many more.  You know what we did with respect to people that are very sick or terminally ill, right? Right to try it's called.  I love that name.  Right to try.  We have some of the one in four, and I think much more than that, manufacturing jobs following twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the WTO.  It was more than one in four.  That statistic is wrong.  Please have it changed.  The statistic is wrong, far more than one in four.  Earlier this year, I kept my promise and replaced the NAFTA nightmare with a brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement.  They said that couldn't be done.  I also took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's pillaging and plundering of American jobs.  Joe Biden's he's going down now to Florida, he's going to spend $100 million.  How good … I have to say this, I'm not a fan of Elizabeth Warren.  I gave her the name Pocahontas, I thought that was the end.  Remember what I used to say about her? She has … Oh, well, you know it.  You know.  I would just, look, I said, "This is not an Indian. " She said, "I'm an Indian. " You remember what I said? "I have more Indian blood than me, I have more in me than she has, you have to reject their extremism and their socialism and their corruption.  They're corrupt.  Adam Schiff is a corrupt politician.  You know when he made that phony speech where he made up a really horrible speech and said that I said it, I said, "Oh, I'm going to sue him. " They said, "Sir, I'm sorry.  You can't. " He's got total immunity because he made it in Congress.  Can you believe this? But here's the good news.  At least we have a forum, we have a place we can talk so everyone knows the press, because they have a big car.  They're a lot of them and we try and give them as little room as possible, make it uncomfortable.  But they're right behind me.  So they know I got in and CNN reported that I had a heart attack.  That was the same visit, and that didn't work.  No it's unbelievable.  CNN reported I had a heart attack so my wife was concerned.  I said, "No, not that I know of.  And if I did, I think I'd be back there.  No.  tell you.  People have come up to me, say, "How do you take it?" I say, "Do I have a choice? Do I have a choice?" We deal with a lot of bad people, but we're winning.  And every once in a while, I'll have one of these days where I'm hit left and right, left and right, like even this great event.  If you could have seen outside or if you could have heard the reports, the reports, "Oh, it's COVID. " It's this again.  By the way, it's a disease without question, has more with the hardworking patriots who believe in faith, family, God and country.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Tomorrow you'll head to the polls to elect a congressman who always puts America first, Dan Bishop.  I've just come from a meeting with North Carolina officials representing communities hit by Hurricane Dorian and I expressed the unwavering solidarity of the American people, we are behind you 100%.  100%.  The prayers of our entire nation are with the citizens of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and everyone else that was in the storms path, and I will they want to win an election.  And that's the only way they can do it.  So the Democrats have nothing, and they've turned the somber process of impeachment.  And it was, you know, to me, impeachment is a very ugly word.  It's a word I associate with some very bad times in our country.  The good news is we're having the best times in history in our country.  Okay? But the word impeachment, to me, is a very, very ugly word.  It's a dark, ugly word.  But, but I have to tell happen anymore.  Biden took a sledgehammer to your state earlier this year, I kept my promise to Michigan workers when we ended the NAFTA nightmare that everybody said was impossible to end, and when we signed that brand new US- Mexico-Canada agreement into law.  The USMCA includes powerful wage protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs right here in Michigan.  Now they have a tremendous disincentive to leave Michigan, fire all of our workers, go to Mexico or Canada, make the car or the product, send it in here without tariffs.  We end up with closed factories, know they're attacking a single man standing there with a camera, who never got hit and never hit back before in his life that.  They're very brave.  They always show up with a mask and they're covered.  Because then they go home to mom and dad.  They don't want mom and dad to know where they were.  But they always attract people that really can't defend themselves very well.  Right? They're attacking this group.  They're not attack North Carolina.  That's for sure.  So these Congresswomen, their comments are helping to fuel Treasurer, Robert Sprague.  Thank you, Robert, and you have a lot more money in the bank right now, Robert, as Treasurer, right, than you ever did? Ohio Supreme Court Justice, Judy French.  Thank you, Judy.  Great job.  State Senate President, a man highly respected, Larry Obhof.  Thank you, Larry.  And, a woman who really has become a great friend of mine.  She took over this party.  We fought like hell.  We had some other people that had their mind on taking over the party, but they'd never had a chance against president? Is he good? He's great, and he loves this state.  Loves all the states actually.  He's just a great American but do you remember his last debate? What he did to that character from Virginia? That one wasn't good.  The other guy's jumping around, Mike is just sitting there, we love America, we're going to lower your taxes.  Thank you, you win.  No, Mike is great.  But Kamala Harris and 13 members of Biden's staff urged their supporters to donate to a fund to bail out rioters, take them out of jail, get know if I can ever view it the same.  But last week they know how I feel and they're very smart.  So instead of saying, we're not going to do business, which would have been okay with me.  We would have worked it out somehow, you would have been very successful, the farmers.  But last week, they had the largest order of corn.  Did you know this? In the history of our country.  Did anyone know this, the farmers? From China, thank you very much.  The largest order of soybeans in the history do their job.  They're not allowed.  We have a radical left mayor who has no clue.  He has no clue what's happening to that poor city.  I love that city.  What's happening to that city.  300% up.  Look, 300% in certain very bad crimes, New York.  There's no reason for this, and we have the greatest police.  They're great.  New York's finest, they endorsed me.  Chicago, Fraternal Order of Police.  Chicago endorsed me, Oklahoma endorsed me, Texas endorsed me, Florida endorsed me.  Every place endorsed me.  I must tell you at great peril, I used them seldom, but those are the times we have the best fun too, I will say.  And that's actually when we learn the most.  For the entire summer, Biden was silent as left-wing mobs assaulted police officers.  When Biden's far-left supporters set fire to police cars and precinct stations, court houses, Joe Biden called them peaceful protestors.  Right? They call them peaceful protestors.  And when we go to these radical-left place that are having problems, because everyone … look at the top-10.  You go back annihilate New Mexico's economy.  The Democrats want us to be subservient to foreign producers.  They want us to be at the mercy of rogue regimes.  That's not happening anymore.  It's been a long time.  It's been a long time.  It's not happening anymore.  But Democrats will never get the chance because New Mexico will never give them that chance.  Under this administration, America is working again.  America is winning again.  And America is respected again, like it hasn't been for a long time.  And I can tell you because What about India? What about all these other countries where that stuff is just flowing out?" It's all right.  Let him give you the answer.  Man, did the cops act fast.  He's already gone.  That's unbelievable.  That's the fastest … You know I have … Look, I love law enforcement.  I love the cops.  I love the police, all of it.  Minneapolis, Minneapolis, you've got a rotten man.  You've got to change your mayor.  You've got a bad mayor.  You've got a bad mayor.  But you know what? we have more people.  Oh boy, it's always tough.  You know, we go through this all the time.  We're always asking them, look at these crowds.  I mean, as far, you can't see it.  You have this prime territory, like you should be in the real estate business.  Now, as far as the eye can see back there, the cameras don't, they don't get it.  You only hear it from the sound.  I go home.  I say to the first lady, "Did you see that crowd we had tonight in Ohio?" deals.  That finally, finally, after all these years put America first.  I've been saying it for a long time.  We passed the largest tax cuts in the history of our country.  The Democrats want to raise your taxes.  Tell me about that.  Tell me about that.  I guess I'm old fashioned.  All my life, all my life, I heard politicians want to lower taxes, not raise them.  If you could lower him, you couldn't lose.  The Democrats want to substantially raise your taxes.  How do you figure that? How want to open them.  They want to make them do badly until November but don't worry, they're opening in November 4th.  But it's true.  So, it's Richard on the phone, Richard, my friend for many, many years.  I said, "Hey Richard, how are you doing?" "Mr.  President sir, how are you?" I said, "Well … " He's been calling Donnie and Don and DJ, and all.  "Richard, are you okay? Everything good?" "Yes, sir.  Mr.  President, sir.  You're doing a great job and I'd like to thank you. " "Good, Richard. know that, in New Mexico, you know exactly what I'm talking about.  People came in, they took your jobs, they had no border, they had no border control.  Look at what's going on now, how we're doing.  I mean, honestly, I mentioned the president of Mexico.  We have today 27,000 Mexican soldiers on the border protecting our country.  And I'll take it.  Because our laws are so bad, they're so pathetic.  And the Democrats could change these laws.  They could change them so quickly.  We could change them all in less citizens from welfare to work, dependents to independents, and poverty to prosperity.  That's what's happening all over our country.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  It's already happening.  We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products made, raised, farmed, and grown right here in the USA.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine.  Finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in less than 10 years.  We've already started. "How much is the new plane?" It was signed by Obama.  "5. 7 billion, sir. " I said, "That's a lot of money. " It's actually two planes.  Air Force One is two planes.  I'll give you a little.  They're going to say, "That's classified information. " Well, they've been flying around with two planes for 30 years, so I assume somebody knows.  And our Air Force One is 31 years old.  Right? So, look, it's time.  A lot of the Arab sheiks come in.  I see their plane.  They have dead.  Long live The New York Times.  Long lived The New York Times.  And I do want it to live, but they have to be, they have to change their ways.  Think of it, they wrote a story about somebody that said she doesn't remember this.  Can you even believe it? And yet, all of these radical left crazies are in judiciary committee and all of these committees that are set up to hurt the country.  With all that we have going, with Saudi Arabia, with Iran, with China trade deal, with Russia, with great.  We're going to have a great third quarter.  We're going to have an unbelievable next year, unless somebody stupid gets elected and raises your taxes.  This November, each of you will vote in truly the most important election in the history of our country.  I used to say it about 2016.  This is now at a new level.  Joe Biden is the puppet of the radical left movement that seeks to obliterate and destroy everything that you hold here including your second amendment, which will have no chance.  Your vote will decide our country, subsidize late term abortion and after birth execution.  They want to take away your guns through the repeal of your Second Amendment, as sure as you're sitting there.  In fact, he even put the big gun grabber, Beto O'Rourke, who made a fool out of himself when he ran for president.  They put him in charge of guns.  Lots of luck on your Second Amendment.  Just remember I said, and hopefully you won't have to think back about it too much, because it won't matter.  Hopefully it won't matter.  No, Beto three years with energy is incredible, but extreme liberals in Washington want to shut down U. S.  energy, including through the so-called Green New Deal.  Close your factories.  Get rid of your cows.  You don't have too many cows in Wildwood, but if you do, they're gone.  We will never sacrifice America's energy independence.  Took us a long time to get there, and we really picked it up over the last three years.  What we've done is incredible, pipelines all over.  Pipelines are good.  They're underground, they're good, environmentally sound.  you Don.  Also, a Las Vegas legend, Rick Harrison.  Rick, thank you Rick.  You are a legend, aren't you, huh? Great job you've done.  Great job you've done.  A friend of mine for a long time.  Years ago, he was looking for a place.  Can I tell this story just quickly, do you mind? He was looking for a place and they said, "Well, that sport's never going to make it.  It's too violent. " They just don't know how violent the American people are, do they? They never quite figured that  But the big deal is, he's changed.  He's changed.  "After 47 years I've changed.  I swear to you I've changed. " Did you see him in the debates? He was not too good, but that's okay.  He was better against Bernie.  Something's going on there, I don't know.  You know what I'm talking about.  But he was better against Bernie.  But in the other debates, he was giving them everything they want.  Free healthcare for people that come into the country illegally, colleges, everything.  Now the new deal, under " "No, no, no.  How about a couple of more?" And then Bill Clinton actually told Hillary Clinton, "You better get going, something's going on in Michigan.  You're going to lose Michigan.  You better start going. " "No, no, no.  The polls say everything's good. " And we won the great State of Michigan for the first time in many years.  And I said, when it came time to picking the Republican Party Chair, head of the RNC, I said, I got to get the woman from Michigan, Ronna McDaniel, to head it up.  in the past.  So instead of traveling to Asia and Europe and all over the world, or going home hopeless and dying, they can now use what we call right to try.  We have the greatest doctors, the greatest drugs, greatest labs in the world.  They can now go and try.  And we are having unbelievable success.  Unbelievable.  Right to try.  We will chart a new era of discovery in space, and someday soon we will land on, believe it or not, the surface of the moon only to go to Mars.  his way back into the Democrat party.  You remember that guy? Great environmentalist.  Except he made his money with coal, which is okay, I think coal is good.  Clean coal, I like clean coal.  If we had listened to Joe Biden, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died.  You know that.  He was way behind.  This was months later.  And then I watch him last night, reading something saying that, I opened, I closed it up, one week later, one week.  Two months later, he was talking about the fact and I'll tell you, it all changed.  Now I'm asking sleepy Joe Biden to give me a list and he doesn't want to do it.  You know why? Because he can only put super radical left judges on, people that would destroy our country, people that would destroy your country.  And he knows that he's not electable… He shouldn't be electable anyway.  This is the worst candidate.  You know where he is today? They have a thing called the LID.  I don't even know.  Do you know what LID stands for? LID.  word.  If the mother decides no, then they execute the baby.  Okay? He's the governor of Virginia and why the Republicans aren't going to win Virginia this next election, 2020.  I'll tell you what, we're going to give it a very strong shot.  When you have people like that, we're going to give it a very strong shot.  But that's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion.  Because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, never stops.  She never gives up.  Kelly Ward.  Kelly, thank you.  Thank you, Kelly.  Great job you're doing.  Are we winning? Okay, good.  I think we are.  That's what they say.  We better win.  If we don't win, this country is in big trouble.  Big trouble.  Also a great friend of all of ours, former State Treasurer of Arizona, Jeff DeWitt.  Thank you Jeff.  And a man who didn't choke under pressure.  I don't even know if he's here.  I think he might be know about that.  We had to have them in the United States and we captured them, we had to keep him here.  I said, "No, no, we don't want them here.  We want them outside. " We got sued all over the place that we won.  So now they don't come into the United States, they can wait outside.  For the first time ever, the United States is now exercising our full legal authority to expedited removal.  We don't have to go through years and years of litigation.  You need Perry Mason to crying in fear of the American warrior that was right there going right up.  No enemy stands a chance against the righteous bite of the United States military, and Mississippi loves our military, that I can tell you.  And our military loves Mississippi.  America is winning again, and America is all, over the world, respected again.  It's about time.  But while we're creating jobs and killing terrorists, the Democrat party has gone completely insane.  The radical left is determined to transform America into a country you would not recognize.  We are the ones we did a job on her, and this is going to be easy.  She was caught telling donors, Democrats, that she is further left than anyone in the history of the State of Kentucky.  Is that what you want? It's not what you want.  So next November, the state needs to defend its values and vote for a rock-ribbed Kentucky conservative, Mitch McConnell.  But we're going to get back to that later.  We'll be back many times.  We'll be back here many times.  Mitch.  Where is he? So President Obama left Mitch, Republican Senate.  The Republican Senate will be great.  Tomorrow we'll also be signing our phase one trade deal with China, massively boosting exports of products made and produced right here in the great state of Wisconsin.  So after years of devastating defense cuts, we have fully rebuilt the United States Military to a point that it has never been before and it's now more advanced, more lethal, and more powerful than ever.  And last year, our great American warriors, because that's what they are.  And they love it.  I got to tell you, they enemies.  I will tell you that.  They take big advantage, but not so much anymore.  We're winning.  We're winning like never before.  Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds.  They hate the fact that we're winning.  We're winning big.  We're winning, winning, winning.  And that is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement.  They're joining our great Republican party in droves.  You see it all the time.  I just spoke to some of your leaders.  He said, "This is unbelievable the China plague that came in and now we've opened it.  And by the way, your state should be open.  Your state should be open.  Any governor that does that.  And even if you look statistically, it's you it's Michigan, it's a couple of others.  They're closed.  New York.  Look what they're doing in New York, what they're doing to our beautiful New York.  It's so sad.  But you just take a look at what's going on in North Carolina.  They want to open.  They want to open.  nice guy, and hopefully he's going to root out corruption because Ukraine has tremendous corruption problems.  And one of the reasons I held up money, very important, corruption.  But the other reason… Why isn't Germany and France and UK and all of these European nations that are right there… Why aren't they doing things that they're supposed to do? Why is it always the United States? So I made this call, had this wonderful call, and the transcript proves it was, as I said, perfect.  It was perfect.  It wasn't like almost… It was perfect.  care for America's youngest patients and breaking all records in doing so.  All of the radical Democrats in the presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb right up until the very moment of birth.  That is why in my State of the Union, I asked Congress to prohibit late-term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total destruction It's like, I made the statement, it's like building a car, but more sophisticated.  They said, "No, it's not. " They said, they took a ventilator.  They took it apart.  These people are the worst, the worst.  Over the next four years, we'll make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all.  That's what we'll do.  Let me just tell you something.  If they didn't waste a year and a half of my life on a ridiculous impeachment, based on a in which we live? It's all down in tape.  It's all down.  I got a reel on him.  We call it Biden's Best.  You got to hear this.  But we want to ensure the future of America, not the future of China and other countries, because if we win, America wins, and it's all about America first.  You've had presidents, they never put America first.  They didn't put America first.  They didn't take care of our country, but we're taking care of our country.  Now, Joe Biden cannot lead our country recorded history.  141 records.  That means, in less than three years, for 141 days, we set a record.  Think of it, we've said 141 records.  Who the hell can do that? And if our opponents had won the election, instead of going up, we're very close to 30,000 on the Dow.  Nobody thought that was possible.  And clearly the fakers back there, nobody thought that was possible.  Instead of being up, you would have… I believe, I really believe, because regulation, so important, tax cuts, so important to get it all going.  had this kind of energy.  He goes, "Well, son of a bitch, he got fired. " You know, in a certain way, I was impressed because, I mean, I didn't think he had the energy, the brain power.  It's turned out he doesn't.  By the way, he's dropping like a rock.  When you're at 1%, there's always a reason.  He should be there fairly soon.  As you know, the Ukrainian prosecutor that Biden got fired after threatening to withhold, I think it was $1 billion or something in aid, was the prosecutor investigating his your vets, if you want things, if you want, you've got to have the court.  Because they'll last for 25, 30, 40 years.  They're put on as young people and they stay a long time.  Our country will never be the same.  We'll never be able to recover from it.  So you got to get out on November 3rd or early voting.  You got to get out and vote.  And you could send your ballot, and then you have to check that your ballot's counted because they might not count your ballot in smaller in numbers.  That's the only difference.  With China, 507 billion dollars, a you look over the years, for many, many years, they've been taken.  And guys like Biden say, "Uh-oh, We'd them them. " And he was there eight years, "We'd stop that. " No, Trump is stopping it.  Trump is stopping it.  Representative Ayanna Pressle.  Is she related in any way to Elvis? I don't know.  Who knows? You never know.  She thinks that people with the same skin color, all need to think the same or military.  You people.  I'm not going to mention all the names, because all those cameras that are rolling, they don't like it when I do it, but one they don't mind is Governor Kim Reynolds.  Come up, Kim, come up here! Also first gentleman, Kevin Reynolds, Kevin! Kim, come on, come on.  You want to say something? Great, great job.  Thank you.  Oh, she was driving me a little bit batty.  She would call me up, Kim, you would call.  "What about ethanol?" I said Kim, "I mean, I'm doing a lot for that place. think they're all open now.  Every one of them is participating.  So I want to thank the Commissioner.  I want to thank all of those schools.  May the best team win.  In other words, Ohio State.  That's a good team.  You know who the best proponents were? The players and especially the parents of the players.  These kids have a short window to get into the NFL to create some excitement and how good they are.  And you have a lot of potential players, but they couldn't play football.  And Italy, a beautiful place.  It's corona.  No, it's the China virus.  They don't want to say it.  The radical left, they don't want to say it.  You ever notice they're always going to have to Russia.  Look, nobody's been tougher on Russia than me.  "Russia, Russia, Russia. " I said, "What about China?" They never going to to mention it.  They got little deals going on I think.  But coronavirus, doesn't it sound like Italy? A beautiful villa.  Corona.  No, it's a China virus.  They should have stopped environment, everybody in this room.  You know, right now we have the cleanest air and the cleanest water that we've ever had, and yet we're number one in the world in energy, by far.  We took over.  But I don't know Jill Stein.  She ran last time.  I don't know, but I know she's not an agent of Russia.  And when Hillary made those statements, two statements, both of them, "They work for Russia, they're agents of…" I said, "You know, when she made that statement about me three years ago, it took me unsolicited ballots.  People that had no idea.  People that weren't going to vote in all fairness.  It's really unfair because our people have enthusiasm, they're going out to vote.  They're all going out to vote.  Everybody here going to vote? Everybody? They have no enthusiasm.  So I said, "So that's unfair.  That guy walks and then they'll have somebody knock on the door, say, "Listen, I would like your ballot. " "I don't want to vote.  I don't care about Biden.  I'm a Democrat.  I don't care about this guy. Arab countries, with Israel.  It can't be done. " Well, we just signed the two great ones, and we got about seven more that want to come in.  What a bunch, what a bunch.  And then they say bad things about your president.  They don't like my foreign policy.  I like my foreign policy.  You like it.  No, we were taken advantage of by the whole world.  They're so stupid, so stupid.  We've spent the last four years reversing the damage that Biden and his crew inflicted on us over a religion, color, and creed.  It's true.  Our numbers with African American workers, people, are through the roof.  Are through the roof because … Remember I used to say, "What do you have to lose?" I'd read the down the worst on crime, the worst on education.  They got this, they got that, they got 10 different things, all horrible.  One day I'm in front of this tremendous group of people and I'm reading this list, African American, they have the highest crime rate, they have the highest this, they have the worst education, they have replaced.  But it's going to happen and I think it's going to actually be in the end, actually better.  You watch.  So we got rid of the individual mandate, which was the most unpopular part of Obamacare.  And we're running it better.  You know, I had a political decision.  Do I make it great? Alex Azar our secretary, do rerun it well and sort of say, "Hey, we run it well. " Or do we run it badly and have everybody upset? We said, we got to run it well, but it's still much But I was at 269, so I went to Maine.  I love Maine.  I went to Maine.  Maine's cut in half.  And one Maine has one.  I went there four or five times.  People are great.  I won it.  And they were right.  There is no path to 270, but there was a path to 306.  These people.  These people.  There is no path.  That's right, Doug.  They said there is no path, the fake news media.  "There is no path for Donald Trump. " lot of important people.  Actually, the people I like the best are the people that are less successful because it makes you feel so powerful.  I always say, never go out with a successful person.  You'll understand.  But I know a lot of very successful people, very, very successful.  And now they call me up, "Mr.  President, sir, would you like to get together sometime?" I say, "Loosen up.  Yes, call me Donald.  You've known me for 30 years, call me Donald. " "Oh, thank you so much.  Thank you, Mr. here.  Our military was depleted, our planes were 50 years old.  Now you have brand new, beautiful F35s, we have brand new rockets and missiles.  And hopefully we never have to use them, I will say that.  But the best way of not having to use them is to have them.  If you have them… We learned that in the school yards, right? We learned that in the school yards, the best way is to have them.  We have the strongest military we've ever had by far.  We'll end surprise medical billing require, … It's called three 40 … What's his deal? 00.  We were given a very tiny chance.  What chance did he give us? Like 9%, something like that.  You know, they gave him millions of dollars shortly before, because he never called one wrong.  He called that one wrong.  He called that one wrong.  And this is the one … I mean, I must tell you they're a little more accurate.  At least here they have us even in a lot of places.  " He's even. " Well, we're not even, we're Opportunity Zones, and we will continue cutting taxes and regulations at a level that nobody has ever seen before.  We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities.  And we'll be watching the ballots very closely also, by the way.  And we will ban sanctuary cities.  We will appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not in enforcing their own agenda.  We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed.  We will defend the dignity " He doesn't know what science is.  "I believe in science. " No, we're not doing any shutdowns.  We don't need, we're rounding the turn.  Without the vaccine, we're rounding the turn.  With the vaccine, it'll just speed it up.  That's another one that will be controversial.  They'll say, "He's saying that it's happened. " Yeah, without the care, without the vaccine, it's going along.  With a vaccine, even better.  It'll be faster.  Biden's own chief of staff said, when they manage the H1N1 that he calls the N1H1, right? He nice.  They're not good.  They're not good people.  But we're draining that sucker slowly but surely.  With your help, we will lift millions of more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity.  Together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood was president elect then because the president didn't want to get involved.  He didn't want to get involved in getting the Olympics, so they called me and I was president elect, hadn't taken office.  Then I got involved and I'll tell you, they were happy we got involved.  It was great.  It's going to be very exciting today.  We are thrilled to have with us 14 players of that really incredible gold medal team.  Give him a big hand.  And they were amazed.  They said, boy is a big crowd.  I have already broken every record.  You look at NASDAQ, you look at some… We're far ahead of what I had planned.  We're far ahead of schedule.  But we did it once, we have to do it again because this was an unforeseen event, a terrible event, a horrible event.  So many people died.  Nobody should have died, not one person.  So many people died, but if we didn't do it right, we would have lost millions of people.  Just a terrible thing.  But oftentimes I say, bring people together.  And then will help millions more citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity.  With your help, we will reelect, and we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration.  We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within 10 years.  Nobody thought that could be done.  Going to were gaining, gaining, gaining.  We had an insurmountable lead on China.  I always heard they were going to catch us by 2019 for 10 years.  We were so far beyond, we were doing much better than they were.  The Biden agenda would obliterate our economy.  He destroyed social security, destroyed protections for pre-existing conditions.  That's what he's going to do, drain your Medicare by giving away your healthcare to illegal immigrants.  He would end our travel ban to jihadist regions and increase refugee admissions by, listen to this, over 700%.  And this it. " It's going to end up being maybe your most important or certainly one of your most important because that's where it's at, in terms of defense, in terms of offense.  We passed VA choice and VA accountability for our great veterans that we had the other day.  Veterans satisfaction, 91 percent, the highest score we've ever received.  You haven't noticed, remember years ago, every story, every night, the Nightly News, you'd always have horrible stories about the VA, you don't see it anymore.  Now, I don't want to give them any ideas, because they'll really been the reaction.  I've done this before.  Big crowds, and it really is keep America great because we have these socialists want to take it away from us.  They want to take it away.  Because until a couple of days ago, and that'll catch up very quickly, we have no choice.  By the way, I never said China was going to be easy, but it's not tough and they want to make a deal.  We just spoke to them yesterday.  They want to make a deal.  They want to make a take a pause to get rid of the China virus, and we got rid … We're coming around.  We're coming around that turn.  I'm telling you, you watch, next year, better than last year.  It's going to be better than last year.  Michigan will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity, or whether we'll allow Sleepy Joe to impose $4 trillion in tax hikes, ban American energy, confiscate your guns, shut down the economy, and tell your governor to open up your state.  It's all Democrat governors.  And I think they do rid of remnants of ISIS.  While we're creating jobs and killing terrorists, democrats in Congress are wasting America's time with demented hoaxes and crazy witch hunts that had been going on by the way, from the day I came down the escalator with our future first lady.  Somebody said to me recently, President, President, it was a friend of mine, used to always call me Donald.  Hey Donald, how are you doing? Let's go have dinner.  Okay, okay, good.  Now he calls me President.  I told you this before.  Calls me pres… They say, "I can be more presidential than any president in our history, except for the possibility of Abraham Lincoln when he wears his hat. " Tough to beat.  That's tough to beat, John James.  But seriously, if you want to be well-represented … Your current Senator, I don't even know this guy.  I don't even know this guy.  Nobody does.  They don't know who he is.  They don't even know.  He comes into the office, I say, "Who is that guy?" I know every Senator.  Democrat, Republican.  I don't know this say, "We're going to raise your taxes?" Is the world going crazy? They say, "We're going to raise your taxes.  We're going to open borders.  Everybody can come in … for everybody's health insurance.  Schooling.  You know, one time … we're going to get everybody a Rolls Royce, and CNN or one of them said, "They never said, and they never promised a Rolls Royce.  Donald Trump lied tonight. " I said, "Every illegal alien will have a Rolls Royce. " They said, "He lied tonight. " These people are sick.  But they're the from Greensboro to right here in Fayetteville.  We inherit the legacy of generations of North Carolina patriots, who gave their blood, sweat and tears for this beloved nation.  Proud citizens like you, helped build this country.  And together, we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, with your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  You hear that, General? We are one movement, veterans are waiting in line for three weeks, four weeks, five days, 10 days, two months, they go to a private doctor, we pay for the bill, and they get themselves taken care of, instead of dying, which was happening.  And we also passed VA Accountability on behalf of our great veterans.  That means when they treat our veterans, and they wouldn't have done it in primetime I can tell you, but when they treat our sick and trouble veterans badly we can say, "You're fired.  Get the heck out. " It's called VA Accountability.  That's  The only thing I remember is the first night I went out after I heard it and I said, see, it's all about her.  And they immediately changed it after spending like a million dollars.  It's all about her.  That didn't work out too well.  That slogan wasn't too good.  So we have to do this.  We have to make a decision.  Do you give up the greatest slogan in the history of politics in our country? Make America great again, right? Do we give up make America great again for a has surrendered to his party and to the left-wing mob.  He has no control.  Does anybody honestly think he controls these radial maniacs? You know what he says to his wife when he's not confusing her with his sister? "Get me the hell out of there.  These people are crazy. " That's what he says.  He has absolutely no control.  You know a lot of times I'll make like a speech and I'll have this beautiful paragraph come out criticizing every little aspect of the speech, beautiful, brilliant, but Joe didn't … It'll say, "A that means 401ks.  I have so many people that come up to me, "Thank you, sir.  My wife is so in love with me because I went up 79% in the 401k.  She thinks I'm a genius.  She always thought I was a total stiff, a dumb, stupid dope.  Now she thinks I'm a financial genius, sir.  And all I did was buy some stock.  I have stock in a 401k, and you made me into a genius, sir.  She loves me so much more than she ever did. " Shows you What are you going to do? Put one of these crazy people running our country again? But it's never been so far left.  I told a story the other day about a business man I saw, one of the biggest in the country.  You probably know his name.  He's hated me for 20 years, and I've hated him also.  Okay? Now they're going to go out tomorrow, "Breaking news, Donald Trump hates people. " You're sort of right about that.  I never liked this guy, and I see him in the White House, and I was absolutely perfect.  That's despite a pandemic that was probably sent in by China, who the hell knows how it got here and all over the world, because China does not want to see me win I can tell you that.  We're not happy with China.  I'll tell you why.  If Biden got in, China would own the United States very quickly.  They'd own it.  If the Democrat party wants to stand with anarchist, criminals, rioters, looters, and flag burners, that's up to them.  The Republican party and you, I can see you. Call him sometime.  They want to abolish cash bail and cut funding for law enforcement.  They want to end… We want to increase law enforcement, not cut law enforcement.  And by the way, Pat Lynch is a great guy, New York, New York.  Really great, New York's finest, right? Their rights have been taken away from them.  Literally they're not allowed to do their job, but Pay Lynch, he said the first time in history that they know of New York's finest have endorsed a candidate.  The candidate is Donald Trump.  First time on ads, he could have won.  He could have won.  Unfortunately, he said, "No, I want to debate. " He went and sued to get into the debates.  That was not a good lawsuit.  They settled by saying, "We'll let you in the debate. " The first question, he was destroyed.  You would think that, the way the Democrats treated him, he would really come to me, and he'd say, "I want you," but his hatred and jealousy … He wanted to be President, but he doesn't have the capability of being President.  But and factories back to the great state of Ohio.  I love Ohio.  I love Ohio.  I don't know what it is.  I was told by Bob and some of the Congressmen that are here, we have some great ones, I'm going to introduce them in a second, but I was told that they're not even trying for Ohio.  You know why? Because I love you and you love me, and that's the way it is.  That's the way it is.  Thank you.  I love you too.  It's very interesting.  So the hell you're doing? You don't know what you're doing.  They're hurting our people. " North Carolina has to open up.  By contrast, my administration is following the science, protecting those at highest risk while allowing those at lower risk to safely return to work and to school, go back to school, go back to school.  You ever see the statistics on young people? I don't know.  They have a great immune system.  Let's get some of that immune system, but they're amazing.  I mean, thousands and thousands of people and they're not even party, but that's their name, the Democrat party.  Frankly, they should probably change it because it does… And then I'd call them the Democratic party, but the Democrat party has never been farther outside the mainstream.  Every major… That's a nasty fly.  I don't like those suckers.  I don't know about you in New Mexico, but I'm not into flies or mosquitoes.  I don't like snakes too much.  We have plenty of them in New York and Washington, a different variety.  I don't like snakes either.  We got a lot of snakes and defend New Jersey jobs.  $250 billion coming in.  Oh that's going to be so nice.  We're restoring America's industrial might like never before.  They're all coming back.  They want to be where the action is.  After years of devastating defense cuts we have fully rebuilt the United States military.  Thanks to the incredible courage of our warriors, the greatest warriors in the world, the ISIS caliphate has been totally destroyed and its savage founder, and leader, al-Baghdadi is dead.  Weeks ago, at my direction, the US military launched a flawless precision you look at New York, New York has gone through a … We have to bring back.  We should draft Rudy Giuliani.  Okay? Let's bring him back.  Draft Rudy.  We want Rudy.  Rudy, Rudy.  I'll tell you Rudy is amazing, but he did a great job.  New York was in big trouble.  He came in and he just was tough, smart, and it became the safest big city.  Now, we have a man where some categories of crime were up 300%.  He fired 1,000.  He fired a lot of of our country.  And now we have to do it again to keep it going.  It's like a giant tree, you plant it, but it takes time to grab on.  We need this next election so badly.  The good news is, it's much easier, because here I've done it all.  I've achieved more than I promised.  I never told you about Space Force.  We got Space Force.  I never told you about all of these things that we got.  We are a big tent party in the true idea.  It's you pick somebody, you pick somebody that's hot, that's going in the right direction, right? She came out, she was at like 14, 15 in the polls, and she started going down, down, down, it never stopped.  It drove her crazy.  She was terrible at the debates.  Wait till you see what … I don't want to put pressure on him but wait till you see what Mike Pence does to her in the debates, but I don't want to put … I don't want to put pressure on Mike.  Do we have a great vice Donald. " "I can't. " He calls me Mr.  President.  I've known this guy forever.  He used to call me, "Hey, Donald, let's go out to dinner. " You know before, he'd go, "Hey, let's go out to dinner. " Now he goes, "Mr.  President, sir, how are you?" Right? How are you? But what we've done, and he said, he told me, "What you've done, we've never seen anything like it. " So many people are saying that.  We are all together doing something, not only in terms of the election, not only in do you figure that? And regulation cuts, we passed more regulation cuts than any administration in the history of our country.  And with the help of our great energy workers, many of them come from the great state of Oklahoma.  Do you ever notice that Biden, no, do you ever notice that Biden oftentimes gets the state wrong? He's in Iowa and he says it's good to be in Idaho.  No, no, you're in Iowa.  He's in New Hampshire and he says it's great to be in Ohio.  No, no, no, you're in New Hampshire.  Thank you, Nancy, very much.  Thank you.  While the extreme left has been wasting America's time with this vile hoax, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our borders, and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed.  From our rural communities to our cities, we are expanding the blessings of America to all of our citizens.  We added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone.  Amazing.  And I listened.  I watched.  I had all these experts.  They were saying, "Yes, I that plant in Lima.  They were going to close the tank plant.  It was done.  And I said, "Why are we closing a tank plant?" And I got a couple of calls from my friends, the Congressman right here.  And I got calls.  And Jim Jordan called me.  Do you like Jim Jordan? He's great.  And I looked at this army tank plant in Lima.  I said, "Why are we closing it?" And I saw the people building the tanks and the technology's incredible.  And if you ever closed it, you'd the UFC community.  Here's a man, he used to walk into that ring and he still does, and he's as good as there is in the world.  Number one in the world.  You don't want to pick a fight with him at a bar.  Let's say you'd had a fight and you happen to meet Colby Covington.  You say, "What's your name?" And he said, "My name's Colby Covington. " And the first time I saw Colby Covington, he walks into the ring.  Now he wasn't fighting, but he walked in with that same never heard of.  So, we are in good shape.  It took a certain amount of courage to do that.  I said I'm going to get killed on this one, and you know what? I did it, and I was applauded, because the people get it.  The people know what we're doing, and they're tired of being ripped off by the rest of the world.  They're tired of being ripped off by the rest of the world.  … I immediately canceled the Obama administration's job-killing catastrophe, which would have dealt a death blow to the he said, "Sir, honestly, my son looks better now. " He said, "My son did not have a good look.  He knows.  Now look at it, it's beautiful, it's beautiful. " But these doctors at Walter Reed, and these Army, and Marine, and the medical doctors, they are unbelievably great people.  And they see sights that you and I hopefully will never see.  They see things that nobody will ever see, and there's nobody like them.  And I have to give a shout out to those people, there's nobody like them.  So in the Pennsylvania, and he said, "You know, in Tennessee we have very early voting, and I just left, and I've been doing this for 24 years.  And I got to be honest with you, I've never seen so many people vote. " And these are people, they love our country, they're incredible, they work hard, but they never liked what they were voting for, so they really wouldn't vote.  Sounds terrible.  But they didn't like anything that they saw.  They say, "Sir, I'm seeing people," and he said this, "come out from the valleys, come out from no wind.  The damn wind just isn't blowing like it used to because of global warming, I think.  I think it's global warming.  Global warming.  No more wind, no more life.  The ocean is going to rise 1/8 of an inch within the next 250 years.  We're going to be wiped out!" Look, I want clean air.  I want clean water, crystal clean, I want, and that's what we have at a record level.  Our air and our water are cleaner now than it's ever been with all that we're doing, and that part of the world, but much bigger parts of the world, he was all over.  He was a bad guy, he was a bloodthirsty terror and he's no longer a terror, he's dead.  And yet now I see the radical left Democrats have expressed outrage over the termination of this horrible terrorist.  And you know, instead they should be outraged by Soleimani's savage crimes and the fact that his countless victims were denied justice for so long.  He was the king of the roadside bomb.  You know of the roadside bomb, and then they will not do anything to end loopholes.  It would take us 15 minutes and we could end the loopholes.  Think of the word loopholes.  They don't want to end the loophole.  If you want to keep violent criminal aliens out of your communities, you have only one choice tomorrow, and that's to vote for Matt Bevin.  Democrats are becoming more extreme and militant by the day.  The Democrat's planned government takeover of healthcare would obliterate Medicare.  What are they doing? I will always protect Medicare for our nation's seniors.  It's going to has been very good.  Tucker Carlson, he's come a long way, actually the whole thing with faking around with our whole history.  He's very strong in that, we took care of that very powerfully, very powerfully.  We signed an executive order.  We fired a lot of people that were talking about cancel culture and a lot of fake stuff, that were getting paid a lot of money that we're here for a long time.  Under 16 years of presidents Obama and Bush, the median income only rose $2,900.  Now think of that.  So first.  Which makes sense, right, but when you hear about that, we always want to get… And by the way, do you know how dangerous it is for these ICE agents, these ICE and border patrol? But ICE, they go into a nest, they call it a nest, a nest of these killers.  They're tough, they're smart, and you know what, they're great patriots, they love our country.  The danger that they have is incredible.  And I just want to salute… and I have to tell you, I want to salute ICE and border patrol, and more product proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase "Made in the USA. " Beautiful.  For decades we had politicians that didn't care about that phrase.  That phrase didn't mean anything to them.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine.  Finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic, can you believe this, in America in 10 years or less.  We've already started the process.  And it could have been started sooner by the past administration, they chose not to do it.  I chose to do it.  Think of here.  Where's the governor? Where's our governor? Hi, Dick.  Good job.  Do we like Dick? Yes.  Where's our governor? He's here.  He just met me.  I told him, "Go back. " Hi, Steve.  Because you have a great governor and we don't have same day voting anymore.  We don't have same day.  What a joke that was last time, remember? Buses poured up from Massachusetts with a lot of people that weren't going to vote for Trump, and they poured up thousands and thousands of people came in on election day ever been before.  They've never been this high.  But they want to stop us because they know we are here, and that's what we're doing, and that's what's taking up so much time.  We're draining the swamp in Washington.  Nothing terrifies Democrats more than the fact that all of their spying… Spying.  They actually spied on my campaign.  Can you believe it? I mean, you know, they try and say, "Well, we were actually just checking things out.  Oh, that's wonderful. " The lying, the falsifying over the past three years plus, before is a guy, I used to call him 1% Joe, because he ran numerous times and he could only get 1%.  In fact, he actually had 1% with an arrow pointing left.  That means less than one.  Now he's shot, he's got half of his head left, and he's out, think of it.  He's totally shot.  And he ends up getting the nomination.  He couldn't get it in prime time.  What the hell is going on with the world today? What's going on? What's going on with the world, Mark Meadows? Unbelievable Meadows, we won.  Thank you, women.  Nobody liked me 2016.  No, no, I hear that.  Remember, women didn't like him, and at the end of that he did great with women.  He did great with this.  He did great with everybody.  We did great with everybody.  Remember, 306 to 223.  That's a slaughter.  That's a slaughter.  Remember, they said he cannot get, they used the word path.  There is no path, right, to 270? I was at 269 if I did great, but they said there's no chance.  of the wall. " I said, "Thank you very much. " Thank you, Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals have changed some.  They want crime.  They want gangs.  I'm saying all this stuff and then I say, "Gee, now I sort of understand why they hate me. " Right? But it's true.  It's true.  Their policies are a disaster.  They're bad politicians and they're horrible policies but what they do is they stick together and then they're vicious.  They're vicious, horrible people.  I didn't say that.  They're horrible people.  What they that they covered, and they mentioned like five subjects that were nothing.  That was 18 minutes.  And the Peace Prize Nobel version, zero time for President Trump.  Thank you very much fake news media, we appreciate it.  And when Obama got it, here are the headlines.  President Obama gets the Nobel Prize.  We need an honest media.  The free airwaves, they lie over the free airwaves.  They use them and they lie.  I don't know.  We're going to have to look at it.  They're a bunch of scoundrels.  it could happen.  Now that we have it, they're going like, "Well, we don't want it. " It's the craziest thing.  Think of it, you want to get a vaccine, and they're willing to hurt people, let people die for political reasons.  Think of it.  I think, honestly, I think it's a disgrace.  But we surged rapid testing kits.  We have more testing than all other, I mean, practically everybody.  You look at number two is India.  They have 1. 5 billion people.  We are up 50 million tests more than this, a great crowd of people.  We have tremendous support all over the country.  I'll tell you what.  These people are great.  And here's the platform that they have.  Sleepy Joe Biden.  No oil, no religion, no God, and no guns.  Now I'm in Texas.  It's a really rough thing in Ohio, but now we're talking Texas.  No oil, that doesn't work well in Texas, right? No guns.  That doesn't work well in Texas.  No God.  Look what they're doing to the churches and everything.  That doesn't We're doing it again.  You've seen the numbers.  And we're developing a vaccine in record time.  It will be ready before the end of the year and maybe much sooner than that.  They're very unhappy about that.  It's amazing.  We have a couple of really great experts, one who's … We call him Dr.  Scott.  You know who I'm talking about? He's great.  He said, this is the only time … They were grilling him on television, saying, "Well, the vaccine's going too fast. " You know why that's too fast? his second-in-command is now dead.  And we've got our eye on and our sights on third also, we know exactly where and when, but it's becoming a very unpopular job, not a lot of takers and that's what we want.  Go back to living a good normal life because America is winning again.  America is winning again like never before.  And as I always say, and I've already said it twice tonight, this country is so respected and we were not respected four years ago, we were laughed at.  But while we're delivering historic victories victories, two of them in North Carolina, sanctuary cities.  And plenty of people, even in California where they have sanctuary cities, they don't want sanctuary cities.  The politicians do, but they don't want them.  Right here in New Mexico, Democrats are trying to turn you into a total sanctuary state, creating a safe harbor for dangerous criminal aliens and gang members that sanctuary policies release from jail.  Now, think of it.  They want to make your whole state a sanctuary state.  So, when MS-13 comes in, and I told you before, we take them too, Lisa.  Lisa, I love you.  Lisa, Lisa, oh God, I love you, Lisa.  And if she doesn't win, Lisa, we've got an insurance policy, Lisa.  We'll get that son of a bitch out.  We got an insurance policy. " And we're living through the insurance policy.  That's what it is.  The phony Russia hoax.  " Lisa, I love you. " Now the do-nothing Democrat con artists and scammers are getting desperate.  13 months, they got to move fast, because they're not beating us at the polls and they know it, dad? How's it going?" Bing, bing, bong.  I said, "Don't play with that while you're talking to me. " "What's going on, dad?" These kids are incredible, right? The kids, they make us look like babies with that.  But he could have given you a great site for about $2.  They spent $5 billion on a site that never worked.  By the way, speaking of that, how did they do with their vote count in Iowa? And I hear, I hear, I don't want to say it.  I don't want to jinx them because, of Somebody else would go out, they have all this money that they raised, and they give somebody $1 million, and they'll ask 200 people that question.  Then, they'll say, "Well, Make America Great Again is better," but I will tell you, I haven't heard one thing where that was true.  With all of these … I would have said, instinctively, Make America Great Again could not be beaten.  I've probably done this 10 times.  I have never had it win.  It's Keep America Great, and that's what we're doing, but we're going to use both. drug prices.  We are fighting the lobbyists and special interests.  We are serving you and how are we doing? We're doing good, right? But because of price transparency, we are getting it done.  We're approving more generic drugs than ever before in the history of our country.  That means they come in, frankly, they're just as good as the big names, but they sell for 80% less in some cases.  We are unleashing innovation to cure diseases of all kinds.  We are cutting out the rich middlemen and delivering prescription drugs directly to the you see where Pocahontas is slipping, badly? Bernie, Bernie has gone up.  He's surging, Bernie's, crazy Bernie, he's surging, and Biden doesn't know the difference between Iran and Iraq.  He's gotten it wrong four times.  He goes, "When we took our shot at Iraq …" No, no, no.  They're all saying, "No, no," they're screaming, "It's Iran, Iran. " What? His son, right? Where's Hunter, where is Hunter? No, I went to one of them.  I said, "We have to have where is Hunter as a witness. " They said, "What do you mean, where we've never seen in the history of our country.  So we were really forced, just to put it away, we were forced.  I said, "Just do it. " Got the approval from Ukraine.  I have to ask.  I said, "Hey, do you guys mind?" They said, "That's a strange request. " I said, "Don't worry about it.  Do you mind?" And they said, "Please, go ahead.  Nothing was said wrong on that call. " So we released the transcript of the call, which was so good that that crooked Adam Schiff, this guy is killed because left-wing politicians, Democrats, decided to shield and shelter… Look, look, wait.  You have criminals that are on the streets that should be in jail.  You have criminals that on the street that should be taken the hell out of our country and brought back to where they came from.  By the way, ICE has removed thousands upon thousands of MS-13 gang members, the most brutal people.  You don't want to do that job.  Maybe you do, a couple of tough people up there.  Anybody want to be with ICE? You got a can't fire it.  We need the strength because we're competing against a lot of nations and they don't go through what we do.  They don't care about the air and they should, and they should, which is another problem.  I took you out of that crazy Paris Climate Accord, because it was totally disaster.  No, it was a way of hurting the United States.  I tell you, we would have had a close 20, 25% of our factories in order to even … it was so crazy, so expensive but I took you out.  going to fail.  And if they ever did anything bad, if they ever do anything bad to us, if they ever succeed in their wildest dream, which will never let them happen, that stock market will crash like you've never seen a crash before.  And you will not be happy with your 401ks like you're happy right now because they don't know what they're doing.  They don't know what they're doing.  And I'd like to speak well, but the leadership, they have no clue.  They're just very vicious people.  Actually, they're sort of mentally  I'm sorry. " It was an amazing effect, because other presidents said, "No.  We will always protect you.  We will always protect you, even if you don't pay, even if our taxpayer is paying for everything, even though you take advantage of us on trade, you don't let our cars in, you don't let our stuff in, but you sell us like crazy, even though you tariff our product, even though you do everything, and then you take advantage of us with the military. " They said, "We will always protect you. " So they didn't pay. want to thank that great team for being with us.  Very inspirational.  This is a big day.  The anniversary.  Thank you fellas.  Thank you.  In my state of the union address, I proudly declare that we are in the midst of the great American comeback and we're just getting started.  After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades.  By the way, I think they're starting another one.  Did you see that? I see these phoneys.  These are the do nothing Democrats.  They said today that Putin energy, no job, got thrown out of the military… You know he got thrown out, by the way.  I used to be nice about that.  Now I don't.  Once I saw that ad, I don't have to be nice anymore.  Okay, I really mean it.  And by the way, on that ad, I know some horrible people, horrible human beings, some of the worst people in the world, I really do, they're horrible, none of those people, and they're the worst, the worst, real estate developers in New York, you don't get much worse.  You listen.  How's he doing? Well, he's doing very poorly with men, with women.  He's doing very poorly with the black community, Hispanic community.  Then you have the election night doing very poorly with those with diploma, without diploma, college, PhDs.  What's he doing well? Oh no, it's going to be a very short night.  Then they say Donald Trump is the projected winner by a lot.  They say, well, what happened is he did very well with women did very well with men, diplomas.  He did well with African American community.  notice when you go to fill up your tank of gas in your car, oftentimes it's below $2.  You said, "How the hell did this ever happen? Thank you President Trump. " Right? Thank you President Trump And look at your electric bills, everything else.  These guys, your electric would go up four, five, six times.  The Green New Deal, it's called the green new nightmare.  While I'm president, America will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas on earth and we will remain energy independent.  It should be for many, many sign sir, break it.  I said, I can't break it.  Can't break it.  Anyway, so the show I said started at ten, went to nine, went to became, it was the number one show all of a sudden, and the agent called me up and he said, sir, I remember it was six in the morning.  I was in bed.  He said, sir, the show just went to number one.  I'd love to see you because I think I'm entitled to more money.  I said, you didn't want me to do the show. people to come into our country, but they want to come in through merit and we want them to come in legally, right? Right? Through merit and legally.  Right? So we'll do this quickly.  This is illegal immigration.  It's called… Oh, listen to how quiet it is.  Listen to how quiet.  Now watch how quiet it gets.  Gets so quiet.  But this is all about… I love you too.  That was a guy that said that, but I love him too.  I love everybody.  Ready? So important.  Illegal immigration. them and been a big part of them for a long time.  And the democrats have never witnessed anything like it, and they know they're not going to win in 2020.  So let's see what can we do to win, but that's not working too well.  You'll see.  The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes, slander.  The Democrats outrageous conduct has created an angry majority that will vote the do nothing democrats the hell out of office soon.  Tomorrow, Kentucky has a chance to send the radical Democrats a message.   I'm one for one.  I have friends.  Some of these great senators, look at Lindsey over there and look at Rand.  These great senators.  Sure, I've run five times and I've won three.  And other senators said "Sir, I've won seven times, sir. " Southern senator.  "I won seven times, sir, and I've won five of those damn contests. " I said, "Senator, I ran once and I won just once. " And we're going to run twice and that's going to be it.  Although they think we're going to run much states and cities.  They're Democrat states.  If they win, the mobs win.  You see these guys, they go around saying, yeah, I want your meal.  Give me that food.  Give me that.  A woman sitting there, she wants to eat.  And they come and they grab her food.  They grab her drink.  Nobody's ever seen stuff like this.  This is all that ideology.  We're not going to let it happen.  We're not going to let it happen.  And in Portland, you see what happened last night, they enforcement.  Surge federal prosecutors into high-crime communities and ban sanctuary cities.  We will appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens.  We will not let them threaten our citizens, and we will keep America out of endless foreign wars.  We will end surprise medical billing.  We don't want surprise medical billing.  You know what happens? It's terrible, but we have that guy? Conservative reporter, not a fighter.  He wasn't a fighter.  And it was 10 people against one.  Now, if we had 10 people against that one, those 10 people would be in serious trouble.  They said, "What the hell?" But I'd like to introduce Colby Covington.  Great fighter.  Great, great fighter.  Incredible.  He is a great fighter.  Three months ago, I saw him fight a guy.  He looked like it would be impossible to beat.  I never saw muscles.  He had muscles on muscles on muscles.  be a fraud.  That turned out to be a fraud.  Then they went to race.  Do you believe that one? Race.  I'm the least racist person in this room.  Then they went to recession, there's going to be a recession.  Oh please, let there be a recession, please.  Because we have a better chance of defeating him if there's a recession.  And unfortunately, the stock market's only a few points from its all time high, which we've broken on, I think it's well over a hundred times.  We broke the all died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory November 3rd, 2020.  Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all.  And I will tell you, that swamp is much worse than I thought when I was out here innocently campaigning.  Let's drain the swamp.  That swamp is a lot worse than anybody ever thought.  That swamp is that dirty swamp.  That's a dirty swamp.  You have some really evil, dirty, horrible people.  Like to say nice, everyone's a sound bite? How do you beat that sound bite, right? So now the people of Wisconsin are going to say, well let's see the state set a record, most successful it's ever been.  And by the way, that's because we got a lot of help from a guy named Scott Walker.  Your governor.  Ron Johnson, all those guys.  Because this didn't happen so quickly.  But think.  So how do you beat that? You have the most successful, lowest unemployment rate you've ever had.  And then they say, somebody's going to come and provide apprenticeships and job training to 9 million Americans, isn't that nice? Whenever I hear that word apprentice, I say I love that word, that was a good show.  They figured, you know what we'll do, we'll get Arnold Schwarzenegger to take my place, that didn't work out too well.  That didn't work out too well, we had 14 seasons, think of that, The Apprentice.  I've proudly signed for bi-partisan human trafficking laws securing $400 million dollars to support victims of human trafficking.  And we have secured, soon to be three years, record funding for our choice, unfortunately.  And the Democrats want to dismantle our military.  After years of building up other countries, we are finally building up our country.  That's what we have to do.  We're replacing the disaster known as NAFTA with the brand new U. S. -Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, a giant victory for our farmers, ranchers, workers in Minnesota.  Congress should pass USMCA immediately.  We hope that Nancy Pelosi can start thinking about passing some legislation instead of thinking about nonsense.  And to protect our industrial backbone, I placed tariffs on foreign aluminum and foreign steel. our hearts are with all of the communities in the West battling devastating wildfires.  I'm going there the day after tomorrow.  I'm staying in your state tonight, but I'm going to be going to California.  Spoke to the folks in Oregon, Washington, they never had anything like this, but it is about forest management.  Please remember the words, very simple, forest management, please remember.  It's about forest management and other things but forest management.  My administration is closely coordinating with state and local leaders and we want to thank the more than 200,000 people by Lindsey and a lot of great people.  A lot of great people.  All of them helped.  Mark helped so much.  All of them help.  Rick.  We have had a tremendous success.  We had so many people wanting to help, but it was complicated believe it not because the country didn't want the liability.  I said, "You know what you do? You draw up an agreement taking away liability. " They said, "That's a good idea. " The insurance companies and the drug companies were very unsure.  This has been going I said, "General, can you cancel the contract?" He said, "Yes sir, I'm very proud of it. " "Oh good.  Cancel it. " "Okay sir. " "By the way, to cancel it, do you have to pay anything?" "Yes sir.  We have a cancellation fee sir. " "How much is it, general?" "$250 million. " I said, "What?" "Sir, we made a good deal.  $250 million to kill. " "You mean if we don't buy the plane we have to hand them $250 million. " That's not good, right? Look at these two guys, they're looking.  leave our house.  No, it's crazy.  But that's okay.  I don't want to bring it up because I don't want to do it too early.  Maybe they'll change, and I don't want them to change.  But think of it for you, and for Texas, and for so many other places, they want to get rid of your energy.  I mean, explain that one.  Explain that.  Yet, every major Democrat running for president, they want to abolish all production of oil and natural gas.  In other words, the Democrats want to completely Forces in nearly 75 years.  That's right, the Space Force.  The fact is, and somebody said it on the other side, an opponent said whether you like it or not, Trump actually did more as president than he promised during the campaign.  Like Space Force, that's a big deal.  Think of it; army, navy, air force, marine.  … Think of it, Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard, right.  Think of it.  I mean, that's all you heard your whole life, right.  The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines, Coast happened to Gone With the Wind, that beautiful movie? Vivian Lee, Clark Gable, right? Whatever happened, bring back Gone With the Wind. " And some of them wrote, "he doesn't know that that movie was made in 1936. " He says fake news.  It is fake news, they're fakers.  But now, anybody sitting there reading this saying, "man, Trump, can't be that smart.  He said bring back Gone With the Wind.  That's an old movie. " Yeah, it's an old classic.  What I say is make great movies, not this computerized garbage.  And I delinquent. " They said, "Really?" "Yeah," I said.  "You're delinquent.  You got to pay. " Obama would go, and make a speech and leave, that would be it.  We were paying for it.  We're protecting Europe, and they're screwing us on trade.  So we protect them, and they're screwing us on trade.  No good, no good.  Can't do it.  I said, "It's unfair. " And the Secretary General, Stoltenberg, of NATO, said, "I've never seen," and the fake news can call him up and check.  He said, "He's the greatest that the most important person, because I turned on a very good show in the morning.  Fox and friends.  They treat us great.  I just want fairness.  What a great group.  Ainsley and Steve, and by the way, Brian has gotten a lot better, right? And how good does Jessie Waters do? How good? Right? Just some really great people.  And again, Tucker's been very good I have to say.  He's been good.  Smart.  He's been great.  Tucker, and the legendary Sean Hannity.  Great.  Number one.  Number one but we brought you a lot over the last three and a half years, and we're going to bring you a lot more.  That's happening.  Hello, Michigan and I'm thrilled to be in Freeland with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots.  Fifty-four days from now, we're going to win Michigan, and we're going to win four more years in the White House.  This is the most important election in the history of our country.  Joe Biden devoted his career to offshoring Michigan's jobs, outsourcing- We shouldn't be smiling about it, but we've changed it around. on our campaign, and they got caught.  They got caught.  And if it was me that got caught, forget about it.  But they got caught and somebody said, " Well I know, but he was President. " Oh great, I'm President too.  And a hell of a lot better President than he is, I can tell you that.  Obama came into office, they gave him the Nobel Prize, like almost immediately, right? In fact, he didn't even know why he got it.  He didn't even know, he had no idea why he got it. We cut down that payment that I was talking about substantially and they're still very happy and they are working with us very well and that includes Mexico.  Right now, Mexico has 27,000 of their soldiers on our Southern border, helping us to guard our Southern border.  And we're giving you the tools to do the job that you signed up for.  That's what we've done.  I entered into a historic partnership with Mexico, known as the migrant protection protocols, to safely return asylum seekers to Mexico, while awaiting hearings in the United States.  You  When they thought it couldn't be done, they said, "Well, he's got to get a vaccine. " And then all of a sudden, they're looking like it's going to be very close.  We're doing great.  We're doing great with vaccines and therapeutics, Remdesivir, all sorts of other things that are bringing the rates down, like at numbers that nobody can believe.  But we have three vaccines right now, they're in the final stage, clinical trials.  We worked it for the FDA where they approved it fast.  They went very fast, very quick, at levels like a life and death war.  You know why they don't talk about it anymore? Because they know it's bad politics, because they know having a wall, they can't win that one.  So they just say, "Let's forget it ever happened. ' Because we won and they say, "Let's forget. " They don't want to talk about it.  That includes the millions of incredible Hispanic Americans who follow our laws, uplift our community and protect our nation, in uniform.  Half of all border patrol agents are Hispanic Americans, I was just with them.  And today mortality than the United States.  Does anyone know that? they don't report that, right? Europe? Europe's had a hard time.  I'm not looking to hurt them, but they have 30% higher.  Our bold and early action saved millions of lives and our decisive economic response saved tens of millions of jobs, including 1. 3 million jobs, and a wonderful place called North Carolina, right? When I banned travel from China in January, Sleepy Joe Biden called it, "That's hysterical.  That's xenophobic. " What does that mean? Tell me what xenophobic means, Sleepy Joe.  Who said wants to be sure that Trump gets elected.  Here we go again.  Here we go again.  Did you see it? A story.  Aren't people bored? Now, does that include because a couple of weeks ago, crooked Hillary said Chelsea Gabbard, right.  Tulsi Gabbard and right? She was a Russian agent.  Tulsi and also Stein from Jill Stein.  I don't know Jill Stein.  I never met the woman.  She is a Green Party candidate or was they said she's an agent of Russia.  I don't know her and I don't know of our country.  Everyone said, "Oh, that's so bad. " Remember when they said, "Oh, that's so bad. " I don't think it's so bad at all.  We won the travel ban.  The fake news said we didn't because we lost in the lower court, we lost in the second court and we won in the Supreme court.  So they said we lost.  Can you believe it? They said we lost Debbie, because we lost the first two, but we won in the Supreme court, so they said, "They lost. " I guess, technically they're by a lot more than we ever thought possible.  Bob was fantastic.  Thank you, Bob.  … Then, one of these characters back there, they put me in a contest with the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? Who do you like better, Trump or Abraham Lincoln? I said Abraham Lincoln- I said, who do you like better? They say they did a poll on this.  I think I remember the numbers.  All I know is, we won against Abraham, Honest Abe.  We won, 53 to 47.  Can you believe that, Abraham Lincoln? I went sure I'd be turning her in.  The owner turned Nancy in.  That's a lot of hate.  That's serious hate, right? No, she's a great owner.  As far as I'm concerned, I think she's fantastic.  She's for us.  They said, "What made you do it?" You know what she said, "Because I see how hard our president has to work.  I see what they put him through.  I see what he puts with and I turned her in. " How about that? How about that? We love her.  She can do my win this year, Corey? You bet.  A little bit slow with that head, Corey.  With the help of everyone here today, we've accomplished more in the first three years.  We've done so much.  We've done so much.  You can go over at taxes and you can go over what we've done with the military.  We passed the biggest tax cuts ever, ever the history of our country.  Now, they want to raise taxes.  Think of it.  All my life, I've watched politicians.  Don't forget, I've only been doing this for these are very dishonest people, shifty Schiff.  But Matt's running against these people, and we have to send them a sign because they're dangerous.  The radical left named Andy Beshear, who rejects everything Kentucky stands for.  That's who they want to win.  Beshear has openly pledged to stop the policies of Donald Trump.  What are the policies? Take care of our vets, take care of our military.  We want jobs.  We want companies to stop leaving us.  They're not leaving anymore.  You see, companies aren't leaving anymore.  Have you noticed? by so much, and then the plane came in from China.  And in many ways, I had to go back to work, but I had to go back to work on this one too.  And now we're going up and up and up and we're winning and we're winning all over the place.  Because I happen to think, I just say what I want.  And you know, they make up a lot of false stories.  They will make up a lie.  Like what I said about military.  Can you imagine? No animal would he's brilliant.  His education is incredible, his military career has been incredible.  Then he ran for office, and now he's a United States Senator from the great state of Arkansas, Senator Tom Cotton.  Great guy.  And Minnesota Senate Majority Leader, Paul Gazelka.  Paul.  Thank you Paul.  Minnesota GOP Chairwoman, Jennifer Carnahan.  She's been incredible.  I said, "Jennifer, are we going to win in 13 months?" She said, "Honestly sir, I've never seen anything like this.  It's going to be easy.  Don't ever say… Just assume we're two points behind,  They weren't investing 25 cents.  The industry was dead.  Now it's vibrant.  After years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation.  We are finally putting America first! But while we are creating jobs and killing terrorists, the Washington Democrats are wasting America's time with demented hoaxes and crazy witch hunts.  Think of it.  The day they came down that escalator it started.  Who the hell else could they take in this stuff? Right? Can I get some credit for that? Most guys would have been in a corner with on American energy and we are delivering a policy of American energy independence like you've never seen before.  In fact, if you look at the straits where we're having all of the problems, you look at the straits, number one, they're not touching our ships, they're not playing with our ships.  They're taking them from this country, from that country, from that country.  But you know what? Very importantly, we have very few ships going there anymore because we don't need that oil and gas.  The United States is now the number one producer of oil have early voting, very early voting, probably the earliest.  He said, "I don't know.  I just left Tennessee. " This was in November.  This was the election, 2016.  He said, "I just left this incredible state of mine, and I love that state.  Sir, we've seen lines of people that didn't vote before, because they never were inspired to vote," and these are people that never voted.  They had hats on, Trump.  They have pins, on Trump, Trump, Trump, and Trump.  They have the bands on, you know, like a Miss Universe, have the lowest average unemployment rate of any administration in the history of our country.  And in your great state, Wisconsin… You ever noticed with Biden, he's always calling the wrong state? And in your great state of Iowa, Iowa.  It's Iowa, right? No, it's Wisconsin.  Oh, I meant Wisconsin.  Oh, I didn't know I was in Wisconsin.  That's fine.  How many times has he done that, by the way? Lots of times, he said.  It's great to be in the state of Ohio.  No sir, you're in Florida.  Many times. highest loyalty of all.  We must always be for the American people, whether it's African-American, Hispanic-American, Indian-American.  We are going to take care of our citizens first.  We are going to take care of our Indian-American citizens before we take care of illegal immigrants that want to pour into our country.  We want to build a nation where every family, immigrant and US-born, can live in a safe community with access to great school, work in a job you love, and have the best chance to reach the American dream.  We love the American dream. Biden is waging war against the American middle class.  I think most of you are not middle class.  You're upper class.  You're the elite.  You know the way they talk about the elite, the elite, they're really elite.  I see them.  They're not elite.  You're the elite.  The elite has decided.  Boy, have we hurt the elite, haven't we now? You're the super elite.  The left wants to get rid of me so they can come after you.  It's very simple.  Over the last three and a half We uphold the principle of equal justice under the law.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always salute our great American flag.  And we live by the words of our national motto, it will never change, "In God we trust. " We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed great.  The Army Corps of Engineers were great.  So we're up to 330 miles of wall.  We're doing 10 miles a week, and we're going to be finished with the wall very soon.  And it's exactly the wall, the little more expensive wall, they want like nice, expensive, but exactly what border patrol wanted.  We're building them the exact wall that they want.  We can't give them any excuses.  We can't give them any excuses.  But it's true, they used to talk about the wall all the time because they never thought for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans.  And just, in conclusion, first of all, it's been a great honor to be with you.  This is, really, it's a great state.  They're great people.  I really mean it.  No, I really mean it.  Get out there on November 3rd.  We've got to win this one big.  This is a bad, bad ideology.  This is probably a step beyond socialism.  I really think in many ways, it's communism we're talking about.  This is a step beyond. that.  Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 50 years.  You don't hear this because the fake news doesn't want to write about it.  Sometimes I'll have a news conference about something that's so good and I'll say, you know… I'll call my wife, first lady, first lady.  People love our first lady.  I'll say, "Wait until you see television tonight, and we did something that was so great," whatever it may be.  We did a lot of things.  look at how unfair it is, it's pretty damn good, but we have a lot of support.  We have tremendous support of the people.  These rallies, look at this rally.  These rallies … These rallies are incredible gap ever polled.  I'm not a believer in the polls but I believe that one.  It's the biggest enthusiasm gap, he's got no enthusiasm.  The only enthusiasm is for the people that want to beat us, they want to beat me.  That's the only thing he's got, the people that want to … They couldn't care a very, very special endorsement from people I like.  Sort of grew up with these people.  I don't know what it is, the relationship we have with all of us, with all of us.  What I'm endorsing, I'm getting an endorsement tonight from some very, very special people.  They work hard.  They do great.  We really put them back to work because this state was in trouble.  At last year, you had the single greatest economic year in the history of your whole operation, right? Of your whole operation.  You've never had can fire people in the VA that aren't taking great care of our vets, okay? "You're fired.  Get out.  You're fired.  Out. " We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdad.  We took out the worlds number-one terrorist and the mass murder of American troops and many others, Qasem Soleimani.  He's dead.  He's dead.  I withdrew from last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal.  I kept my promise, recognized the true capitol of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  And we got it built.  I was signing a Bernie would have her philosophy, right? Liberals.  And I would say, she'll be president.  If he ever wants, she'll be president within the first month or so, I would say.  I think it's just an excuse.  Using him as just an excuse to get the super libs in there, so they can destroy our suburbs, demolish our Second Amendment, erase your borders and indoctrinate your children with poisonous, anti-American lies in school.  So under my leadership, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world.  And now we're doing it again.  No, he's a good sport, Bernie, crazy Bernie.  He's so crazy, but he's a good sport, because with Hillary, they really did.  Do we have any young children here? I know it's on a lot of television.  Could you turn the television off just for a minute, just for about three seconds? He got screwed.  Right? Okay.  Now you can turn it back on.  But then they really did with this last one, because if Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren, if she would have left the race one day before the big Super Tuesday, I mean, It would have been in shambles.  Our auto industry is coming back so strong.  It would've gutted, would've destroyed the industry.  But in my first week in office I proudly withdrew the United States from that job-destroying catastrophe.  We're imposing beautiful well-placed tariffs, money comes in, on foreign countries that cheat our workers, steal our jobs, and break all the rules, I'm sorry.  And by the way, they've been changing and charging tariffs on us for years.  We have countries that charge us 100%, 200%, 297% in the case of Canada with your farm  She wants no 2nd Amendment.  She wants to raise your taxes to a level you'll be paying your government back for a long time.  She is not the right pick, but she was my number one draft pick.  They asked me that.  Why do you think? I said, "I'm very happy. " They thought I was happy.  They thought I was happy for him.  No, I was happy for me.  The Biden-Harris plan is a step by step recipe for abolishing America's borders.  In the Biden, Bernie manifesto, Joe Biden, promises Mexico.  And you must never forget.  Get out there and vote and get ready and get everybody.  We need it because we're fighting a lot of forces, including Facebook, I saw, and Google, I saw.  Did you see Google? He said I may have lost two-million to 10-million votes, according to this character that worked at Google, right? And we still won.  How the hell did we win? Everybody was against us.  How did we win? How did we win? This is a Google executive.  From two-million to 10. 5-million votes, and we late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers right up until the moment of birth, and that's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  It's true.  Right? I see it.  Just like mom, I see it.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, and socialism.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it is the party of the American dream.  We've achieved record funding for the transcript, you see how perfect it was, but they don't quit.  But what you should do is take a look at the behavior of Sleepy Joe.  So I quote, "I said" … Let me act like him.  I've got to speak really slow though, and … "I said, ‘You're not getting a billion. ' I looked at them and I said, ‘I'm leaving in six hours.  If the prosecutor isn't fired, you're not getting the money.  You understand? You're not getting the money. '" Then he goes, at the end … I didn't know he two years to get out of that hoax statement. " She made it about them.  Everybody laughed because of what we proved.  But I'll tell you what, these are very bad people.  These are very dishonest people, and the media is worse than all of them.  But think about the preposterous hoax the Democrats are now trying to peddle.  I've just beaten, with no… Look, look, we didn't have too much political experience.  I did a good job, built lots of buildings all over the place, had great success in show business.  Just to set illegal alien criminals loose in the great state…" I'm using the words great state.  He doesn't.  "… Of North Carolina. " With the support and encouragement of McCready, sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina have released thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into your communities, and you see it.  You see it.  The charges against these freed criminals includes sexual assault, robbery, drug crimes, kidnapping, and homicide.  Murder.  Why would you do it? Why would you do it? What is it? Explain it.  Just recently, Mecklenburg County set free an illegal alien charged don't know if you agree.  So we go to the arenas but because of China, the arenas aren't working out too well, right? You can't really do that anymore for a while but we are rounding the turn, I will tell you, we're rounding the turn on that but because of that … So we said where because we have the same crowds.  I think we have bigger crowds potentially.  We were in New Hampshire the other night, we had to turn away 8,000 people at an airport.  We're doing all mostly hangar things because we're we paid Iran for a basically short term deal.  And we gave them… What's more impressive, we also gave them $1. 8 billion in cash.  Cash.  Many plane loads.  You know what that took? Many, many plane loads, $1. 8 billion.  I said bad.  That's when I realized how powerful a president is in the United States.  When a president has the right, which by the way, I don't believe he did have that right, okay? When a president has the right to go into the banks and take out $1. 8 billion their money back both bureaucratically and from a tax standpoint.  They brought back almost $1 trillion now because of us.  All put to work.  We slashed the largest number in history of job-killing regulations, and we ended the war on American energy.  We are now the number one producer of energy by far anywhere in the world.  For decades, you saw corrupt politicians take money from lobbyists to impose catastrophic trade deals.  Mississippi lost 40% of all manufacturing jobs after the twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the World Trade Organization.  your second amendment.  He wants to get rid of it.  The radical liberal Democrats from California and Massachusetts, they're pouring money into Kelly's campaign, because they know that he's a rubber stamp for crying Chuck Schumer, crying Chuck, and nervous Nancy wacko Pelosi.  And we're going to have a new Speaker.  But that's why Martha has my complete and total support and endorsement, and we have to all get out there and make sure that Martha McSally… She's a warrior.  Let me tell you, you don't know.  We don't know.  People don't know, that knocks down a monument or a statue gets 10 years in jail.  And the police in Washington, and we had National Guard, we had Secret Service.  We were all ready for them.  We were ready for them.  And the time came, there's was only a problem, nobody showed up.  You know why? 10 years was too much.  10 years was too much.  It's amazing the way.  Isn't it amazing the way it all works? So instead they burned down Portland.  I speak to the Governor.  The mayor is hopeless. go to Walter Reed and I see him and the young man his legs were blown off.  "How you doing?" "Sir, I want to get back.  I want to get back, sir. " I'll tell you, the spirit of these people, it may even top the farmers.  It may even top the farmers, which is pretty good.  But he was responsible, more than anybody else, 90% they say of these roadside bombs sent to fight us, he was responsible and he took a hard hit.  He took a very hard hit.  He was responsible woman.  Very good negotiator.  I said, "Angela, that's a long time," this was in 2019.  She said 2032.  I said, "No Angela, that's not working. " But I said, because now they want to get cared, but I said, "Well, what about the last 25 years? All the money you owe us?" Everybody forgot about that.  They forget about all the money that wasn't paid.  I said, "What about the trillion dollars that you really owe?" So we're negotiating let's see, but in the meantime, we're reducing our troops.  Remember this, we're supposed totally depleted.  We have beautiful new F-35's, F-18's, new ships, new missiles, new rockets, we have new everything.  I came back with Admiral Brown, the United States Coast Guard and some of the other folks, and they were saying that the new Coast Guard cutters … How good a job has the Coast Guard done during these hurricanes? And I said, "Admiral, how good are the new Coast Guard cutters?" He said, "They're the finest in the world, sir. " And they had old broken equipment that they had to keep going on a shoestring.  They have 700%, opening the flood gates to terror-afflicted nations.  You understand that.  He'll establish a national sanctuary city policy for criminal, illegal aliens.  He loves sanctuary cities, meaning the people that control him love sanctuary cities.  Biden, pledges to oppose school choice.  And he has stated that if he is elected charter schools are "gone".  They're gone.  In the second term, and we've already started it very heavily, I will provide school choice to every parent in America.  A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs and a limitless made in the USA, just so you know.  And our nation was weakened at home and disrespected abroad.  They don't disrespect us anymore, folks.  I got NATO to pay an extra hundred billion dollars.  They weren't paying.  They were delinquent.  Many nations were, except for seven.  Many nations weren't paying what they were supposed to be paying, so we're supposed to protect them.  They kill us on trade.  They have all sorts of barriers and everything else.  The taxes are really unfair.  The tariffs were ridiculous, what they do this guy? How about Schiff.  He makes up a conversation.  He gets up before the United States Congress.  He repeats my conversation with the head of the Ukraine, the new president, a good guy, repeats it.  I said, "I never said that. " He made a horrible statement.  It was a total lie.  And then I actually wanted to release the actual conversation.  And you haven't heard about the whistleblower after that, have you? Because the whistleblower said lots of things that were so good folks, you're going to find out.  But go in? No, sir.  Let it simmer for a little while.  Let people see what radical left Democrats will do to our country. " But Americans have watched left wing radicals, burn down buildings, loot businesses, destroy private property, injure hundreds of dedicated police offices.  These police officers, they get injured, they don't complain.  They're incredible.  And injure thousands upon thousands of people only to hear the radical fake news say what a beautiful rally it was.  And they never talk about COVID.  They don't talk about, when you see 25,000 people walking Clinton did, right? He was all over the place.  It's the only time I've actually seen him work hard, when it came to trying to beat Trump.  True.  True.  Remember he said… Remember he said, "He will not be president"? Well, that didn't work out so well.  And then they figured they could take us out a different way, very dishonesty, right, with the lying and the spying and the leaking.  And we are kicking their ass.  I'll tell you.  In the delusional Democrat fantasy, I'm now supposed to be afraid of not happy.  They were not happy.  I'll tell you, Tuesday night, the fake news was not happy.  They had their studios all built.  CNN had their A- list talent.  They don't have A-list talent, but they had the best they could have.  And they were all set.  This was going to be the end of Trump, because this man was going to lose.  But he turned out to be tough and smart.  And in all fairness, I helped a lot too.  And toward the end of the night, they started had 10,000 people like in Central Park.  I said, "What's the big deal?" They made it, "Oh the crowds are so large. " Jeff just told you he had 175,000 people sign up.  Seriously you have to see outside.  They know because they have to follow, they're trailers.  I call them trailers.  But they're fake.  They're fake.  They're not honest.  Let me just tell you, so here's the story, so we have these massive crowds that fill up stadiums every single time.  We have tens of thousands of people outside.  I love you like I've never loved anyone.  And if for any reason she loses, even though she's a stone called corrupt person, if for any reason she loses, Peter, we've got to have an insurance policy, we have to do it because we're going to go… " And that's what's been happening for the last two and a half years.  It was their phony insurance policy.  So FBI lawyer, Lisa Page, so in love that she didn't know what the hell was happening texted the head of Counter Intelligence, Peter Strzok, likewise so in love he They're fighting him.  He supports taxpayer-funded extreme late-term abortion.  Extreme late-term.  He would allow left-wing anarchies to burn down your businesses.  He would hand over your jobs to China, and your country to the socialists and beyond the socialists.  The Democrat Party also continues to attack our incredible border agents, more than half of whom happen to be Hispanic Americans.  And they're great.  And I want to thank not only law enforcement, but a big part of law enforcement, the Border Patrol and the ICE agents, they're incredible.  The ICE agents, Dana And the fact is, America is respected again.  We're winning.  We're winning all over.  We're winning in Washington that Democrats keep losing their minds.  That is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement.  Look, we're a unified party.  The Republican party has never been unified like it is today.  I'll show you.  I could say, "We're going to go over to the Hill.  No, we're going to go over to someplace and we're going to do a rally at eight o'clock tonight. " We'd people weren't very sick and they'd end up being terminally ill.  They couldn't get to see the doctor.  Now they go out, they get a doctor, we take care of them.  We can take care of our vets.  So we're using this great power not to pursue conflict, but to really preserve, and I mean in the true sense of the word, preserve peace.  We have this tremendous military, and you know what that is? That's really a great fighting force, but I hope we never have to use it.  I really do.   My administration implemented the travel ban on some of the world's most dangerous countries.  A lot of people were against it.  They said, "Isn't that terrible?" Countries that have crime rates that are so high you wouldn't even believe it's possible, and we have a travel ban now.  We don't take people from those countries.  I'm sorry.  And we won a historic victory on the travel ban in the United States Supreme Court, ruled it totally constitutional.  On no issue have Democrats more totally betrayed you than on immigration.  Democrats want open Joe Biden has been on the wrong side of history for 47 years.  In fact, the secretary of state, secretary of defense said about him, "He's never called it right.  He never called it right. " If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would right now have died.  When the virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II.  You know that, especially with ventilators and equipment and masks and shields.  We're delivering life-saving therapies that have achieved among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country remember? I'm an Air Force One and they notified me, "Sir, we're 45 minutes out, sir.  We have to close all windows, we have to turn off all lights in the plane, sir.  All windows, all lights have to be off, sir.  We're turning off the lights outside and the runway light, sir.  They going to be in a very dim"… Frankly, if you're not at 30-year old pilot you can't see them, because I went there, I said, "I don't see any light pilot. " As we're landing, I said, "I don't see. " And where you ask … You solicit the ballot.  You want it, you sign papers.  They send it to you.  You send it back.  It's okay.  It's good.  But unsolicited, where they take millions of ballots.  So what happens? I happen to think the postal people are great, but what happens if one of the post guys, before he gives the ballots, he takes a whole handful and hands them to some Democrat political operative, right? And so, he hands him a thousand ballots, and the guy doesn't even have to … you don't actually may put up some additional, but we will have it completed, everything we said, by the end of the year and nobody thought that was possible.  And we've reduced illegal border crossings by 60% since this time last year.  And if we keep going at the rate, it'll be about 85% in about two months.  So it's a great honor.  And you know what? Your community is much safer, you see the difference, it's a much safer place to be.  But more important than these numbers is the fact that we've ended catch and was willing to do it, I would've taken it.  I would have been very proud to have done it.  It would've shown it's my real hair at least.  It wouldn't be pretty, but it's my hair.  May not be great, but I will say it's better than most of my friends who are the same age.  A lot better.  A lot! But we had a different location, as you all know, and we said, "Let's do this one.  It's bigger. " And we put screens outside for all of the people.  We to be a beautiful picture.  We killed the vicious founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, we killed him.  Why didn't Biden get him?k They were after him for eight years, they never got him, I got him.  The world's number one terrorist and the mass murderer of American crews, Qasem Soleimani, we got him too.  Soleimani.  Al-Baghdadi and Soleimani, the two worst terrorists in the world for many, many years, many decades.  We kept America out of new wars and we're bringing our troops back home.  We're bringing them back home from all 9 years, or 13 years, or maybe 17 years, or maybe if I still have the strength, 21 years.  See, now they're going crazy.  Now they're saying, see, I told you, he was a dictator.  He wants to take charge in control of our country.  These people are crazy said.  The guy goes, well, we're going to fight and we're going to … No, no.  He's going to win.  You know he's never leaving office, don't you? He's never going to leave office.  These people are crazy.  They're crazy.  But helping them.  They got hit so hard by Oh Biden.  They got hit so hard.  I remember them in the Supreme Court, the Little Sisters of the Poor.  They get hit by Biden.  And then he says, "How wonderful. " He's such a wonderful person.  He supports taxpayer-funded, extreme, late-term abortion.  And I mean, ninth month, ninth month, ninth month.  And he'd allow violent mobs to burn down your business.  And he would hand your country over to the socialists.  But I believe it's worse than socialists.  I do. us, attack was made on us.  Remember this, they killed an American, they killed other people just before that.  And so we did what we did, right? And they said, it's our turn now.  I said, you better be careful when you say it's our turn.  Because we had designated targets that you wouldn't know… It would have taken him 30 years to rebuild if that was even possible.  It's true, it's true.  And we saw those missiles launched, and they were big and they were fast, and they were accurate.  Four of than sleepy Joe Biden did in 47 years.  That's true.  We did more.  That sort of has a nice ring to it.  Right? Think of it.  We did more and it's true.  Just take a look, Space Force, by itself, that would be a major achievement, and with us, we did so many things, so many things.  But we did more in 47 months than he did in 47 years.  It's true.  It's true.  A lot of what I did is destroy some of the horrible things that they did, it.  And there's no plan like those plans.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up to the moment of birth.  That is why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant Washington corruption.  The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it's the party of the what, he will be one of the truly greats in the history and maybe the greatest in the history of this state.  Matt Bevin, come on up Matt.  So we're also joined tonight by a very powerful man in Washington, your great Senator Mitch McConnell.  Nobody works harder for Kentucky than Mitch.  I will tell you, nobody works harder, and frankly, maybe more importantly, nobody works smarter.  It's up here.  I know a lot of people that work hard.  He works smart.  When the Democrat arsonists in Washington tried to destroy an you.  Thank you.  And I'll tell you what — we have more in this arena, and I hate to say this to you… we have more than this outside of the arena trying to get in.  So if you'd like to give up your seat or where you're standing… Sorry we couldn't get you seats, but if you want to give it up, let them come in, you go out.  Does anybody want to make that deal? I don't think so.  But we have more in this arena and outside of this arena than all promising to defend Wisconsin workers, but then they went to Washington and lined their pockets with special interest cash as they shipped your jobs and your dreams to countries thousands of miles away.  Countries that you've never even heard of.  Globalist politicians lowered our economic defenses and allowed other nations to rob your factories, steal your farms.  By the way, no estate tax on those beautiful farms.  We got rid of that.  So now, if you love your children and you have a farm or a small business or small ranch, or even a large is tough.  There's this guy.  You ever hear of a guy named Conor Lamb? He's like a lamb.  So we heard, because he's in sort of a Trumpy area, right? And we heard that he's going to be for Trump, but he's going to be fighting for Trump.  I saw some of his commercials, I thought he was a Republican, right? Except when he got to Washington, he voted with Pelosi a hundred percent of the time.  Craziness.  He voted with craziness.  And so we thought, this Conor lamb guy, he even voted support.  Two people.  Always got to be two.  Always got to be the two.  Those two.  We have great support from the Republican party, tremendous support.  It's never been this unified before ever, ever and the fake impeachment.  We had 196 to nothing Republican support.  We had 52 and a half to a half in the Senate.  Who is the half? I can't imagine.  I can't.  Buddy was very good today.  I have to tell you, he was good.  Now, I'm happy.  Thank you, Mitt.  so well seated, it will be so strong like never, ever, in our history.  But everything that we built, low taxes, strong military, taking care of our vets, all of the things we've done can be decimated very quickly if the wrong person gets in especially now.  I've always said 2016 was the most important election maybe in the history of our country, a lot of people felt that.  So I don't know, I can't say this is more important, what we did was a miracle.  Not to us it wasn't, but a lot of people say it anyway, you're better looking, including the men, including the men.  Now you're all looking good.  Since my election, the number of new business applications for New Mexico has increased by almost 30%, more than any state in the United States.  Think of that.  More than any state in the United States.  So essentially, that's saying you're in a certain category, which is a very important category, you're doing better than any state in the United States.  How do I lose New Mexico? Explain that one, right? How do we lose that one? don't think of Minneapolis that way, right? You don't think of it.  The city is burning down.  You have this fake CNN reporter, what's his name? Velshi, the nice shaved head.  Maybe I should try that, should I try that? No, I don't think … " Donald Trump went down substantially in the polls, like about 40%.  He showed up with a new haircut, it's called the shave head. " Ali Velshi.  And remember he said, "No, this is a friendly protest.  It's a friendly protest.  And it's really quite nice. " And a guy like shifty Schiff, he's a corrupt politician, he made up my statement because… See, I did one thing very good, as soon as I heard about this deal, I released my statement immediately, but he had already made horrible statements.  And by the way, the whistleblower, the whistleblower defrauded our country because the whistleblower wrote something that was totally untrue and we broke up the game.  Remember the second whistleblower was coming, right? And then the informer, who is the informer? I know who the informer is.  So the informer obviously gave him a false law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.  And Republicans will always support the heroes of ICE, border patrol and our great law enforcement.  The Democrat party… Do you notice I always say the Democrat party? You know, before I came, they were all calling it Democratic because it sounds better, right? It does.  It's much nicer.  The Democratic party is much nicer than the Democrat party, but their name is the Democrat party, and I'm not looking for them to sound nice.  I want to give their name.  So, I always say the Democrat the great job.  Not me.  We've all done it.  I've been your spokesman, and I've done a good job as spokesman.  But they all say that.  But we've done a good job in many ways.  You know, all of the promises that I made, I'm the only politician in history that I've actually kept more promises than I made.  Think of that.  In other words, I made here, like a thing like Right to Try, nobody talked about Right to Try.  We got Right to Try.  That's somebody terminally ill, will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We will uphold religious Liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear Arms.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep America out of endless Foreign Wars.  And, you remember with me, they thought because of my personality, they said, "He'll be in war the first week. " What happened to the war? Remember, we were going to be in war with North Korea.  Hillary would have been in war with North Korea.  It would have been him? Now listen, he said to me, something that's amazing.  New Jersey was very heavily hit, very hard hit, thousands of people.  He said with thousands of people that died, thousands of people, there was only one person that died under the age of 18.  Would you believe that? Which tells me one thing, that kids are much stronger than us.  When you see a little kid running around say, "Boy, oh, boy, do you have a great immune system? How about a piece of your immune system?" They don't even know about this.  Let's  But in the meantime, we're doing really well.  And as the wall goes up, it becomes less and less of a problem, because as the wall gets up, people aren't getting through.  I mean you got to be a a world class pole vaulter, or a world class Mount Everest type climber.  There's not too many around like that.  It's really doing the trick.  The failed liberal establishment in Washington squandered your tax dollars, shipped away your jobs, sacrificed your sovereignty, and bogged us down in one foreign war, or debacle, call it whatever got to grab on and catch, so they can't destroy it.  So they can't destroy it.  But I think it'll go down, and I hope it's going to go down as one of the greatest evenings in the history of this country, because it's never happened, anything like that before.  And these guys don't even question it.  They just sit back and say, "I guess he's right about that. " I'll never forget the night before, I was at a tremendous arena.  The place was going crazy.  It was like this, going crazy, and was a cheerleader for the worst trade deal ever made by any country, NAFTA and China's entry into the world trade organization, which built China like a rocket ship.  They were flat lined for many, many decades and then right through the roof, that was a Biden approval.  These disasters ripped out one third of your state's manufacturing jobs.  You know what happened.  Biden shouldn't be asking for your vote, he should be begging for your forgiveness.  He did a terrible job.  Now the Democrat party is pledging to rejoin the disastrous Paris Climate in the back of the van and we get them the hell out of our country.  But ICE offices worked through Ohio police to remove one thousand two hundred dangerous criminal aliens from your streets.  And on all your street, do you see the difference now between what it is now? We have a problem over there? Go ahead.  Take your time.  Take your time.  Good, thank you.  Great job.  Thank you.  Okay these people here, unlike you up there, these people have been waiting for three days so that they could  And we didn't.  First time in a long time, but now we're up in the polls.  We just saw polls.  We're up in Michigan.  I don't know if that's good or bad.  I don't know.  I don't know if that's good or bad because in all those polls where we were down last time, we won.  So maybe we're better off being down a little bit.  Hello, John James.  I see you handsome guy.  John James, get out and vote for John.  I'm going to introduce you in no.  I never said that. " Check out all of the statements he's made on everything and now he's going the opposite way, but he's agreed to the manifesto entirely so maybe he'll do that.  And then he figures later on, he'll go.  But everything he said is right, because he has no control over what's happening.  The radical left has captured the party.  They even elected a person that nobody ever heard of, a senator, it's been a while, against a young, good looking Kennedy by 10 points in Massachusetts.  Did you know of law, guided by commitment to justice, and strengthened by our love of liberty.  Our two national constitutions both begin with the same three beautiful words, "We the People. " That means that in America AMD India alike, we honor, respect, trust, empower and fight for the citizens we proudly serve.  Under Prime Minister Modi's leadership, the world is witnessing a strong sovereign and thriving Republic of India.  In a single decade, with the help of Prime Minister Modi's pro-growth reforms, India has lifted nearly 300 million people out of poverty and that is an incredible number. years, we've secured America's borders, blocked the entry of foreign terrorist, fixed our disastrous trade deals and we have fixed our trade deals good.  They are good.  In fact, Biden was interviewed today on … There they are.  CNN.  No, he was just interviewed today.  He was interviewed by Jake Tapper who I find to be a nice guy.  I don't think he likes me too much, but that's okay.  He was interviewed on CNN and they said, "Which is better, NAFTA or the USMCA?" He said, "No, no, the USMCA. " Tapper great, Mike Pence really was.  He worked so hard.  And it's unfair, he worked so hard.  The ventilators, the vaccines, the therapeutics now we have, look at what's happening.  When somebody gets very sick, look how we bring them back so often, compared to what it was originally.  I mean, the work that's been done, and wait until you see what happens over the next few weeks with what's going on.  But the Democrats don't want the vaccine.  They don't want it.  At first, they wanted a vaccine, because they didn't think room.  And she not only taped it, but tell me when you hear a divisive speech… They talk about me as being a divider.  I'm not a divider.  I bring people together.  We were bringing people together.  We were bringing people together, like never before.  Success was bringing everyone together, and then we got hit with the China virus, but we were bringing people together.  But one of the opening speakers last night said that America will go to hell if we don't have open borders.  Think of that.  Go to new slogan, because look, our country is doing great.  We are doing very well with China despite the fact that they want to have you believe in the contrary.  All you have to do is say China, how you doing? They're not too happy, they're not too happy.  They're losing millions of jobs.  The tariffs are working, and they're eating the tariffs by the way.  There's no price increase.  You know, you gotta talk to these people.  The fake news.  But do we give up? And by the way, the biggest beneficiary, I did it with the Republicans, and this could not have been done by anybody but me and the Republican party.  The Democrats did not do it.  They could never have done it.   Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  We have invested $2. 2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, including nearly $200 million for Marine Corps Air Station Yuma.  Right? I recognized Israel as the true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  We recognize Israel sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  They've been trying to get it for 52 years. okay.  You have good husbands.  But we're going to do a vote.  So I said, I love these free polls because pollsters and most of the pollsters are corrupt as far as I'm concerned.  If we believed in pollsters we wouldn't be here right now.  But we're actually getting very good.  We just had a 53 from Rasmussen, which is very good.  Considering we won four years ago with a lot lower than 53.  History has shown that when you're at 53 you can't lose an election.  Has anyone ever lost we have it under control.  Really good.  Our coast guard has been fantastic, by the way.  Unbelievable, the bravery.  They go into these storms.  They go into these storms.  They say, "How dangerous is it?" "Sir, it's very dangerous. " I say, "Yeah.  All right. " He said, "Would you like to try it sometime?" I say, "Admiral, no, thank you.  I'll take a pass. " I think they might have a problem with me doing it, but I will tell you, they are … In Texas, they saved 16,000 people two these were real warriors for all of us.  They love your state, and they love our country.  Congressman Jack Bergman.  Great job, Jack.  John Moolenaar.  Thank you, John.  Great.  Great going, John.  He's a tough cookie.  And Tim Walberg.  Tim, thank you.  Great job.  What great people.  And I talked about him a little while before, I could talk about him all night.  He's a star.  He's going to be a future star.  We have a very much different party than we had four  But all of that is changed.  We're respected again.  They're all saying, "Oh, gee.  I hope he doesn't do this or that. " They've taken advantage of us for years, and I have to say sadly, in many cases it's our allies that took the greatest advantage of this country.  But now you finally have a president who understands that I'm not supposed to be the president of the world, I'm supposed to be the President of the United States of America.  To bring back our jobs for other countries, we passed the largest rate than the United States.  They're liking to compare us to Europe.  50% greater excess mortality rate.  Our early and aggressive action saved millions of lives through Operation Warp Speed.  You've heard about it, they don't want to talk about it.  What we've done in a record period of time with the ventilators, now we're building ventilators for the world.  Very hard to do.  We'll develop and distribute a vaccine very, very shortly in record time, it would have been two or three years, four years, if Biden's group had done it, but We're making sure they go home and we're making sure they stay home.  We don't want them.  We issued regulations to stop the horrible practice of birth tourism.  You know what that is, right? Anchor babies, you know that, right? Anchor babies.  Have a baby in our country and you stay for the rest of your life.  Congratulations.  You're a citizen for 90 years.  Then you bring in your family.  You bring in your family, right? No.  No good.  I implemented a historic public charge regulation to finally and fully Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them to see the evil doings of Israel and the United States.  How do you have such a person representing you in Minnesota? I'm very angry at you people right now.  She is a disgrace to our country, and she is one of the big reasons that I'm going to win, and the Republican party is going to win Minnesota in 13 months.  Thank you very much.  So we're honored to have with us today a special guest, a man that really is a Freeland, we stand on the shoulders of generations of Michigan patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears for this beloved nation.  This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line.  It's the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg revolutionized entire industries.  Michigan, well, you know this one, right? Michigan gave us Motown, right? That's right.  That's right, Motown.  We love Motown.  Michigan gave us Motown, gave us Motown, gave us the Mustang and the unrivaled might of the American Midwest.  This is the state where tough, strong and determined time.  Been a long time.  Been a long time.  We're putting America first.  No issue of Washington Democrats more thoroughly betrayed the American people than that of immigration.  He goes, "Traitor. " Are you having a good time, sir? I think you are.  Goes, "Traitor. " I guess in a certain way they are traitors, when you think about it.  Left wing politicians, I call them the Do Nothing Democrats, support deadly sanctuary cities, demonstrating their contempt, scorn and disdain for everyday Americans.  These jurisdictions release dangerous, violent, criminal aliens out of love it, right? They love doing that.  They wouldn't trade places with me under any circumstances.  They wouldn't trade places with all of our great Wisconsin politicians.  They want to be a military warrior and we don't want them for that.  We want them doing what they're doing.  But our great warriors carried out a daring nighttime raid and terminated the founder and leader of ISIS.  The animal known as al-Baghdadi is dead and the wicked caliphate is 100% destroyed.  And I will tell you when we took over a little less than again.  Thank you.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you.  Well, thank you to Vice President Pence.  Thank you, Mike.  And hello Pennsylvania.  Hello.  It's great to be back in this state that gave us the Liberty Bell, Pennsylvania Steel, Hershey chocolate.  I like Hershey chocolate.  The Nittany Lions.  The Nittany Lions, they're doing pretty well too and the incredible American Patriots just like you, you are Patriots.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Under Republican leadership, America is stronger than ever before and we are respected again. the best in the world by Abrams.  They're the best in the world.  I said, "Wait a minute.  If you close this, we're not going to be… where are you going to build tanks? This is the primary factory in the whole country.  I think it might be the only factory in the whole country. "? "Please send us 200 tanks. " "We don't want to send you any tanks because we're going to kick your ass. " We're going to make our own tanks.  Right? We've got to make our own tanks.  So are protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will, the Republican party.  We're stopping surprise medical billing and making everything totally transparent.  I signed it already.  Everything now is going to transparencies, where hospitals, doctors, everybody has to tell you how much things are costing.  Watch those prices come down.  Right? Right? I have an expert on healthcare.  He said transparency because it's a big deal.  It's a big deal.  Nobody else would have gotten it done, that I can tell you.  Transparency is bigger than healthcare because you will beneficiaries.  This year, 40 million American families will benefit from the Republican Child Tax Credit, each receiving an average of $2,200.  We ended the last administration's war on American energy, the United States is now, and I said it, and I'll say it all night long, number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world, and there's nobody even close.  In the State of Pennsylvania, natural gas production is up 34% since our election, 34.  Virtually every leading Democrat has pledged to entirely eliminate American production of oil, clean coal, natural gas.  I have this great economy where people are hiring prisoners, and you have to see the reviews they're getting, they getting phenomenal reviews.  It's a beautiful thing, it's a beautiful thing what's happening with prisoners, they get out and they can actually get a job and that's what's happening and we're very proud of them.  We're expanding opportunities zone so that no American is left behind, it's one of the great successes the opportunity zones.  Nobody talks about it, it's one of the great successes.  And thanks to our pledge to America's workers, private sector partners will what he's done, we went into a deal, the Korea, you know about the Korea deal? Hillary Clinton's deal, along with Biden.  They promised 250,000 jobs, right? 250,000 jobs.  And they were right.  Except all those jobs went to South Korea.  They didn't come to us.  00, the polls close.  And they said, "Donald Trump has won the state of Texas. " Simultaneously with the closing.  I'm now running in Texas against a man who's against oil, guns, and God.  How do you win Texas? I said this, you could bring George I gave it to the farmers.  So they were even so they're okay.  Are you okay? Come, Doctor, please.  Doctor.  Thank you.  These people some of the people are waiting for five days, especially in this location.  You take your time, darling, take your time.  Thank you very much.  Take your time.  Doctor, thank you, doctor.  Some people wait for four or five days.  That's incredible.  He never did anything against China, Joe Biden.  And that's why they desperately want him to win.  They want him get along with Turkey.  We get along, but they've been there for… And by the way, I call it a safe zone.  That is the most dangerous safe zone in the world.  Okay? I'm looking at the audience, there's about three of you that want to be in that zone, okay? And you're very tough people.  But this is the most dangerous… I call it, I call it the safe zone.  Some day it may be a safe zone, but I took our soldiers out, because we had an army here and we had a ever took over negotiations? This is what China would love more than anything else.  It's not going to happen folks, because we can't let our country go back to hell.  We can't do it.  We can't let it happen.  Because the Bidens got rich while America was robbed, and let me tell you the fake news will not put it in.  I watched the last debate, and this weakling named Anderson Cooper saying, well, it's totally unsubstantiated, Mr.  Biden, solely answer.  What's unsubstantiated? He is on tape doing a real quid pro quo. to Washington.  I'm going back.  I'll be violating the carbon footprint.  I'm going to Hawaii to play golf. " I drive to play a round of golf at the course I own, it doesn't even cost them anything.  He flies to Hawaii, nobody cares.  If I drive 20 minutes, it's like, "Donald Trump is playing golf today.  He violates the carbon footprint," but just think of it.  Think of where we've come.  Think of where we've come.  A great congressman from Tennessee, they have … It's a great state.  They could have fun with it, ought to be ashamed of himself.  But today, the House Democrats announced these two flimsy, pathetic, ridiculous articles of impeachment.  The House Democrats are walking back from everything they claimed.  With today's announcement, they're now admitting there was no collusion, there was no obstruction of justice, and there were no crimes whatsoever.  There are no crimes.  It says that, there are no crimes.  They're impeaching me and there are no crimes.  This has to be a first in history.  They're impeaching me.  You know why? Because phenomenal.  Okay? It sounded like a Penn state football game like the Steelers football game.  You can't disguise it.  You ever see Sleepy Joe with the little circles? Oh, you can.  He puts them very far away, so far away.  Then he comes up with the mask.  He's like a hundred yards from the nearest human being.  He's got a … He feels good about the mask.  I wonder in the debate it'll be him and I or the stage.  Is he going to walk in with a mask? No, I state's budget and going much higher in the very near future.  And they've generated nearly a billion-dollar budget surplus in New Mexico.  Thank you very much, president Trump.  Thank you.  Now, under the Green New Deal, that all goes away.  That all goes away.  It all goes away.  You can forget it.  No more cows, no more airplanes, no more trips.  A single car.  Make it electric.  Single car.  You're not allowed to travel more than 162 miles.  They'll call us "the hermit nation. " We'll never down a monument.  And there's no games.  This is the old days.  This is the days when we had strong laws, when we had real laws, when we had real politicians that knew how to make laws.  So here's the thing.  So they weren't going to come in, they were actually looking to knock down the statue of a man named Thomas Jefferson.  That's not too good.  They had obliterated a lot of different things.  And so I had a news conference.  I announced that I'm signing a law that anybody done.  That was a tough one to get done.  It sounds simple, but it was tough.  There's nothing easy in this country.  You know, they said to me, a friend of mine the other day, "Who's the toughest country to deal with, President?" He used to call me Donald.  I've known this guy for a long time.  I'd like to say 20 years, but it's much more than that.  I just don't want to tell you how long, it's too long.  And I said, "Call me Donald.  You've always called me they take out registered voters.  It's not registered.  They say, "Most likely to vote voters. " That's what, most likely registered, they're dead, they're old, they're not going to go, they're not going to do anything.  Be careful with your ballots, but get out there.  November 3rd is the biggest date, one of the biggest dates in your life, in many cases, frankly, it's the most important date of your life.  One other thing we've done lot.  We've gotten rid of a lot of nonsense from Obama, like the Paris Accord that costs us most important election in the history of our country.  I feel that way so strongly, so do you.  Joe Biden devoted his entire career to offshoring Wisconsin jobs, outsourcing your factories, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless ridiculous foreign wars and surrendering your children's future to China.  You know what he's been doing? I just see he's up there tonight getting softball questions from Anderson Cooper.  They don't ask me questions like that.  And the audience isn't quite like this.  Do you see what his audience … they've got cars.  They the crowd we had last night? We were in a great place, Ohio.  We had a crowd.  We had a crowd.  You couldn't see the end of it.  I said, "Turn around camera, turn around. " But, they never liked doing that, you know? They don't like spinning those cameras.  They don't want to show the crowd.  They don't like showing.  They don't like showing, show the crowd and this is … it's an honor.  Let me tell you.  Look, I used to think that was a difficulty like it was come.  I mean, they all want to do it.  We'll have peace in the Middle East without blood all over the sand.  No blood.  We're going to have peace in the Middle East.  So I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.  And I told this story last night.  Should I tell it or not? Should I? Yes.  She wants me to do it.  So I go home to our great First Lady.  I said, "First Lady, you're going to be so proud of me tonight.  I was nominated sure get elected.  Listen to this.  So doesn't he want to see who the Democrat's going to be? Wouldn't you rather have, let's say Bernie? Wouldn't he rather that Bernie who honeymooned in Moscow? Wouldn't that be? These people are crazy.  That's all they think about.  They don't think about the country.  They don't think about jobs.  They don't think about lowering your drug costs.  Infrastructure.  These people are crazy.  Trust me, I like what we're doing and I love this country.  I love this country.  Now, and I devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and I'd like to fight a little less with these people but they just don't stop.  They just keep coming at you in waves.  They are unfortunately not the best people.  And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, we're going to keep on winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before, we may have right now the greatest economy in the and India has never invested in the United States like it is doing today.  And I want to say it's reciprocal because we're doing the same thing in India.  On Tuesday, two Japanese companies, Toyota and Aisin, announced a combined investment of almost $800 million, which will create over 900 new jobs right here in Texas.  At the same time, we are working to expand American exports to India, one of the world's fastest growing markets.  We are committed to ensuring the Indian people have access to the finest goods in the world, product stamped with you. Wow, thank you.  Thank you, New Mexico.  Thank you.  We love being with you.  We love being with you.  Incredible people, incredible people.  Thank you very much.  And I'm thrilled to be here in Albuquerque with thousands of hard-working, freedom-loving American patriots.  Thank you.  Incredible.  We're all united by the same love of our great country.  And by the way, our country is doing great.  You see it.  The same devotion to family and the same profound faith that America is blessed by, the eternal grace police officers are not villains, but the heroes who risk their lives to keep us safe.  And they guard … The thing that's incredible … I know so many police, they're so good, one bad apple, and they're on for months.  One bad apple, they go on for months.  The thousands and tens of thousands of good things, nobody talks about it.  These are great people that have done a great job, and we have to support our law enforcement.  So Biden wants to appease the domestic terrorists, and my plan is to arrest domestic community, the Hispanic community.  They failed women.  The numbers on women's unemployment were the best in 61 years.  Biden spent the last 47 years betraying the American people.  He was always for things that you wouldn't want and now he's changing, "No, I never said that.  I never said that. " I've spent the last four years keeping my promises and delivering for the African-American community and for all communities and the best is yet to come.  Perhaps in no area have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds and on "Well, they have a crowd tonight. " Behind her, it looked like 25,000 people.  That's what we have, by the way, a lot more coming in.  But she said, "He's got maybe a thousand people, a thousand. " You know what I got? I have a thousand people here.  No, this is the fake news.  You know what? It's not a question of how many… They are just a bunch of dishonest people, I've never seen anything like it.  Being in real estate and being in New York and being in all over, I've seen lot of money.  Getting off the border, getting off illegal protection, all of that, we are going to lower your taxes further.  We gave you the biggest tax decrease in the history of… The biggest tax decrease in the history of our country.  We decreased your taxes more than anybody has ever done and we're doing more because that's going to spell growth and that's what happened.  Companies are moving in like nobody has seen before.  So we're doing that.  Massive additional regulation cuts.  We've cut regulations more than any president in the  Now, I'm a very loyal person, and I am concerned about changing the theme because Make America Great Again I think was the greatest political campaign in history.  I mean, crooked Hillary spent three or four times more money than I have spent.  Crooked Hillary, wait, crooked … We should lock her up, I'll tell you.  Crooked Hillary spent three or four times more.  I wanted to be a little bit … I have to say, that was a great campaign, and I don't want to change it.  I don't want to have this sit if you want.  No, just stand.  You know what they say in the fake news? Look, you've been standing.  Nobody sat? I don't know.  Isn't that exciting? Nobody sat.  You know what they say? No, you know what they say? They say, Trump only got one standing ovation.  Because they stood at the beginning and they never sat down, but they don't say the second part.  It's great.  Great spirit.  You know why? You love our country.  And you see what's happening.  We have turned this big monster this was successful.  It's a recent.  Because when I left and Arnold Schwarzenegger and I like Arnold said some very nice things, so I'm not, but the show did not exactly succeed when I left, but I had it on and they wanted me to sign for more and I said, no, I'm going to run for president but I'll never forget.  I looked at, I didn't know anything about this business and I had an agent, wonderful guy from William Morris, and he said, sir, I don't want you to sign.  No business show has he wasn't supposed to be there.  He was a designated terrorist by president Obama who didn't do anything about it as usual.  As usual, they don't do anything.  They designate and they don't do anything about.  He should've been killed 20 years ago.  Now, here's the story with the Democrats.  If I didn't kill him, and let's say we lost three, four, five embassies or bases or thousands of people or hundreds of people or two people were killed, they would have said, "Trump should have taken him out. " Anything we do, they never before.  Since the election we have created seven million new jobs.  The average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any previous administration, listen to this one, in United States history.  That's a good fact, the lowest in history.  Thank you man.  We have a great veteran up here and he said, "We love you.  We love you. " The veterans.  Are we doing good for the veterans? Thank you.  African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded in the history of friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and get out and vote.  Get out and vote.  And watch to make sure they're not cheating, which they will be.  Early voting has already begun.  Don't wait.  Get out and vote.  We got to win this.  If we win this state, we're going to win the whole thing.  This is a very important state.  If we win North Carolina, we're going to win the whole thing, because we're doing well everywhere, from Wilmington to Charlotte, from Concord to Raleigh, and Jane Timken, Jane.  And, the man who is in charge of my campaign in Ohio, I had a choice of five people.  I said, "I like this guy's name. " I don't know why.  His name is Bob Paduchik.  Why do I like his name? I said "Bob, how are we doing?" He said, "You're going to win big, sir. " Because, you know, you keep hearing, you cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio.  That's these guys.  Once, I was leading Ohio by a lot in the poll.  They That's for sure.  So these Congresswomen, their comments are helping to fuel the rise of a dangerous militant hard left, but that's okay, because we're going to win this election like nobody's ever seen before.  And tonight I have a suggestion for the hate filled extremists, who are constantly trying to tear our country down.  They never have anything good to say.  That's why I say, "Hey, if they don't like it, let them leave.  Let them leave.  Let them leave.  Let them leave. " They're always telling us how to run it, said it was about her daughter's wedding and yoga classes, 33,000, yes.  it was disgraceful.  I will tell you this, we now have a great attorney general.  A fair guy, a great gentleman.  Another man who's here tonight is the world's tallest campaign manager.  He is an unbelievable talent.  But they were saying about our opponents… I'm not going to mention the name again because we'll never get it finished here, so I'll just say my opponent.  Is that better? They were saying how sophisticated her campaign was.  Except ours was far in so many ways.  They fight for us.  They really are incredible.  And they come right from the State of Pennsylvania.  Hey, do you ever notice where Biden keeps saying he's in the wrong state? Like if he's in Ohio, "It's great to be an Iowa tonight. " If he's in Pennsylvania, "It's wonderful to be in the State of Delaware. " What is wrong with this guy? What's wrong with him? There's something wrong.  Okay? There's something wrong.  No, he keeps … How many times can you do that? So far, it could Remember I used to go over polls? But I only used to talk about them when I was doing well otherwise I wouldn't.  We had our best polls.  Americans of all political beliefs are sick and tired of the radical rage filled left Socialists.  I never saw anything … What's going on in this country … What's going on in this country, really the Democrat party is the Socialist party and maybe worse.  Voters are making a mass exodus from that party and we are welcoming them to the Republican party with wide open arms.  we'd bring them back and they wouldn't accept them.  We couldn't land the plane.  We couldn't get anything through the border.  It comes through the border this way, not that way.  But now they take them back.  They've been good actually.  They've been very good.  Now we paid them a lot of money.  We paid them 500 million dollars a year.  Can you believe we paid them 500 million through El Salvador? And I said, "Oh, there's not going to be any money anymore because you're not treating us right. " in, and it lands, and it comes over, and it pulls up, and we have military guards, we have incredible talented musicians that do this.  That's what they do.  What happens is that door opens up, and the Colonel told me, he said, "Sir, when that door opens up, those same people that you think are okay, do things that you'll never see.  You will hear sounds like you've never heard. " That's what he does.  I saw that door open up with a coffin with a flag over it.  The door was opened, and of them and they let really seriously mentally ill people out on the streets, and you see plenty of them today, even today.  We're going to have to give major consideration to building new facilities for those in need.  We have to do it.  And at the same time, we will be taking mentally deranged and dangerous people off of… … Mentally deranged and dangerous people off of the streets so we won't have to worry so much about that.  The big problem.  We don't have those institutions anymore and people can't get proper care. accused him of MeToo, she accused him of everything.  She accused him of … That he was a racist, right? That he was a racist? Because what he's done to the black population of this country was a terrible thing.  She's accused him of everything under the book, the busing, remember, the busing scandal.  So I said brilliantly he'll never pick her because she was too terrible to him.  She was the worst of everybody.  By far, I would say, but she picked him and hopefully that's going to be history, it's not going to Everybody came together.  The Republicans came.  Other than Mitt Romney, one half a vote.  One half a brain.  Another friend of mine and incredible fighter, and somebody that loves his state, and I'll tell you, the Freedom Caucus, right? And we have a man named Andy Biggs here.  He's a fighter.  He's a fighter.  And he loves our vets, and he loves our military, and you love our second amendment, right? And we're not going to do anything with it.  They will destroy that second amendment.  Just remember I said it, him.  I said, "if you ever did a conservative newscasts, instead of… you got, ABC is terrible.  NBC is just absolutely atrocious. " And they do badly.  Not a lot of people are watching.  They used to, when we had the late, great Walter Cronkite and these legends, right? But ABC is terrible and NBC is terrible and CBS is terrible.  They're all the same.  And I said, "your ratings stink.  If you would do a newscast that's conservative, I'd get them a host.  I could recommend guys right now, right? I'd world, by far.  We will restore patriotic education to our schools and we'll teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.  We will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God, We Trust.  For years, you had a president who apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania us.  It's where the army weathered its brutal winter at Valley Forge, and where General George Washington, who, by the the same thing.  No, it's the same thing.  Remember, last time, four years ago, "Donald Trump will not do well with women. " I said, "Why am I so bad? Donald Trump will not …" And then the votes started coming in.  "He's doing very well, Jim, with women, I don't know what's going on. " We did very well with women.  We did well with everybody, we did well with everybody.  But they have a regulation.  And Ben Carson was fantastic, the head of HUD.  I said, "Ben, they're going to destroy United States of America.  And by the end, it didn't look too good.  Did you ever see more unhappy people? So they go, "Donald Trump has won the great state of Florida.  They go, "Whoa, whoa, whoa. " They outspent me like five to one.  Only negative ads.  They're all negative.  So by the time people got into the voters booth, they only knew one thing.  She hated Donald Trump, but they said, "What the hell does she stand for? What does she do?" Every ad was a negative ad.  So it And when they were saying how sophisticated Hillary Clinton's campaign was … You know, we're not sophisticated, right? I don't think so.  Remember all during the … "Well, she's got the finest computer technology in the world. " Yeah, she paid for it, but she didn't get it.  "She has really fantastic geniuses. " But I had somebody that was a lot better than the people that she had.  His name was Brad Parscale, and he's here with us.  Campaign Manager.  Doing a great job.  And our numbers are looking very good.  But investment in Mississippi and 400 new jobs at its facility … did you ever hear of this place … Blue Springs.  Blue Springs.  Before my election, our leaders used the great American middle class as a piggy bank to fund their delusional global projects all over the world.  We take care of other people.  We take care of other countries, but we don't take care of our own.  They knowingly decimated American manufacturing to promote economic growth in foreign countries.  They deployed our military to protect … think of this … immensely wealthy nations, said, "You got to get … you can't protect yourselves. " I got them to take 8,000 National Guardsmen.  And in one hour it all ended and they rode through the next three weeks with no problem.  And we did the same thing in other cities.  But how about Seattle? Isn't that great? So they take over a big chunk of a city called Seattle.  I mean, we're not talking about some little place, we're talking about Seattle.  Have you ever been to Seattle? They took over a big chunk and the governor, who's radical you know this.  For decades, the Democrat party has betrayed African Americans.  They betrayed us all.  They betrayed all of us.  But we're delivering for African Americans.  We're delivering for Asian Americans and Hispanic Americans like nobody has ever done.  We are fighting for great jobs, great schools, great healthcare, and a truly great future for our country and for them.  We are the party of equal opportunity for all Americans.  Thank you.  To support working families, we've reduced the cost of childcare, expanded paid leave, and given 40 million American and I have none. " Unfortunately, I'd like to have some.  I would like to have some.  I think it could help, it might make me better, but I have none.  And I said, "I have more than she does. " And then she went out to, and she choked, remember that? She went out, and she took a test.  And it found out that about 700 years ago, there was a possible event, 1,024th, right? Wasn't that it? Good memory, very good memory.  Trump has a good memory.  Good moment.  Not for  We got to get them.  We got to get them.  We got to get them.  So if you want to stop the drug smugglers, the human traffickers, the viscous MS13 gang members, and by the way thank you to ICE.  These people go into those nests, we call them nets.  These are vicious, vicious people.  We got into the nests with our ICE people, and for them it's another day at the office.  There aren't too many people in this room that want to do it for a living.  Let me anybody else? They all want to do it.  He just raises his hand, he has no clue what he's doing.  They raise their hand.  Remember he looked? Do you want to give illegal aliens healthcare, even though we're taking it away from our own soldiers that are up … and he looks and they're all raising their hand? Did you see that? Well, he, "Oh, oh, oh, okay, I'll do it too. " In addition to replacing NAFTA, I've taken the toughest ever action against China's trade abuses.  They want to make a deal so badly. I don't blame them.  They want to eliminate America's borders in the middle of a pandemic, suspend all deportations, restore catch and release, and expand horrible, dangerous, disgusting sanctuary cities.  They want to give illegal aliens government healthcare and taxpayer funded lawyers.  That's what we need is more lawyers.  Let's get some more lawyers into the act.  They want to end national security travel bands from jihadist nations, very dangerous, and increase refugee admissions by 700%.  This is in the Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie, you know crazy Bernie.  A lot of his people Oklahoma and North Dakota, and many other states would have been hurt.  Now you think you're going to be hurt there.  You try putting AOC in judge of your energy.  That will make the pandemic look like child's play to the people in energy.  She has one problem, it's called petroleum.  No president or administration has done more in the first three and a half years than the Trump administration.  Not even close.  Nobody.  How about the CNN anchor, how about the CNN anchor, you know, did a little shave job in of lives.  What did we do? So we're going to pull them out, and we're pulling people out, and we're trying to make good deals, and we're going to bring our soldiers back home, and we may need them for something else, and they'll be ready.  Previous administrations lust for regime change, and also put historic Christian communities in vastly more danger than they were before we started.  They are some of the biggest victims of these power vacuums and reckless foreign adventures.  The Christians, the Christians.  And we work hard with the Christians.   He's doing a great job, Robert O'Brien.  Robert, how many hostages have you and I negotiated to get back, not giving anything but we have a record of what, Robert? 50, 50 and 0.  We're 50 and 0 on hostages.  We got them back, we got hostages back from countries that you'd never even heard of and it's been pretty amazing.  Robert, thank you very much and thank you all for being here.  Mick it's good to see you.  Oh wait a minute, wait.  It's a very, very outstanding senator.  Oh US-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law.  The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, and ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Arizona.  By the way, for people with the small farms and small businesses, if you love your children, you can now leave your companies, you can leave your farm, you can leave your ranch to your children, and you don't have to to pay, they don't pay a death tax.  They don't pay an inheritance tax.  A big deal.  That's a big deal.  So if you love your children, it's good.  You know why? They want security and they don't want projects being right next to their house.  That's okay.  They don't want it.  By the way, that includes minorities.  Because 29% to 30% of these suburban communities are minorities.  That includes them.  They don't want that.  They want safe communities.  They want great communities.  They don't want to lose the American dream.  It's very simple.  I got rid of the regulation from Obama- Biden that was destroying suburbia.  Okay? Destroying it.  I think suburbia has got to I made a terrible mistake, I said it last night, I should have said, "We will not under any circumstances build a wall at our Southern border. " They would have given me all the money in the world.  But stupidly, I said, "We will build a wall. " And the Democrats said, "Let's not give it to him. " But we got it, we won.  We won court cases, we won court cases.  I won so much money we could build four walls if we wanted.  So then they said, "All right, all right. "  And we cheered as we looked at all of the success that we've had but he really oversaw the rise of China as a positive development.  Remember, he said, "No, it's a positive development for America and for the world. " He's been in Washington for 47 years now.  He's all of a sudden going to change? He's going to change? He's not going to change.  Don't forget, he was in Washington in his primetime, which was never considered great, and now it's no longer primetime.  When I banned travel from China, Biden called it we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all.  And I never even knew the swamp was this bad.  Swamp is bad, bad people.  A lot of bad people in the swamp.  Bad people in the swamp you thought this was going to be easy, right? A lot of bad people.  Together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  That's what's happening now.  We will enact trade deals, the greatest deals ever made.  That result in say, well we'll do a better job.  Really, you're going to do a better job? The lowest in history by far, your number one economic numbers by far.  Oh, let's put somebody else in as president.  I don't think so.  Right? But here's one that I loved the most.  African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded in the history of our country.  And here's another one.  African American youth, the way it was was so high was so horrible.  Youth unemployment has reached an that time it was too late because they had already embarrassed themselves by doing it.  And Nancy Pelosi was all set.  She loved doing it, she from day one, but she thought it was what Schiff said.  When she saw the conversation, she said to her people, "What the hell did you get me into?" So they could have dropped it, but they said, "Let's give it a shot. " He's another beauty, Mitt Romney.  He's a real beauty.  He couldn't get elected dog catcher right now in Utah.  So we have another great of free welfare, healthcare, everything.  They want to give them everything.  For a long period of time, they were treated… You know this before I came.  They were treated far better than our veterans were treated.  Now our veterans are treated great.  True.  Illegal immigration costs Arizona taxpayers more than $2 billion every year.  Two billion you're paying.  Nearly 20% of Arizona's annual budget in general funds goes toward this big problem.  For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild our cities all  I said, "Well, there it goes, the election for him. " He's end our travel bans on jihadist regions and increase refugee admissions by over 700 percent.  And, that's the deal he made with Bernie Sanders, opening the flood gates to terror, afflicted nations.  But I predict the Sanders people are going to vote for us, like they did the last time.  We had a tremendous….  Because they love my stance on trade, because I know trade, and I was telling him much more so, than even Bernie.  But Bernie, is right on that What the hell ever happened? He took the money and he ran I think.  Where's Hunter? He took the money, he went to China, he took 1. 5 billion.  He had no experience.  He didn't have a job until this guy became vice president.  Then he went to China, he got $1. 5 billion.  I asked the head of a great company, Blackstone.  One of the biggest in the world.  I said, "Steve, let me ask you a question.  Is that possible?" "No, that's never done. " China doesn't do that.  history of politics and say, "Oh, let's go with a new phrase. " Right? But we're going to keep it.  So we have to keep MAGA.  But now we have CAG, now we have CAG.  So we have a both.  I just don't have the courage to get rid of the one.  It would be too disrespectful.  Too disrespectful.  But Michael McDonald, I want to thank you and the members of the Nevada Republican central committee.  You're all here.  They're great people.  And the man came here.  He loves a million bucks and they do a poll, like 78 people were polled.  Now you've got thousands of people.  So tell me.  What's your feeling, first of all in the name You like MAGA, Make America Great Again? Yes? Oh, you are the one.  You are a man.  I made you famous today.  You said the nicest things about me.  Thank you.  Did you see him on television today? I think you're great.  I think you're great.  Thank you.  No, he called me a great Christian and a great really worked.  Now jobs and investment are now pouring into 168 newly designated Opportunity Zones right here in Arizona alone.  From Apache to Navajo and Maricopa Counties.  We're supporting working families by fighting pay.  We are doing a job with paid family leave.  We're doing something that nobody's ever done to this extent.  Reducing the cost of childcare and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pocket thanks to the Republican child tax credit.  Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and cutting through job, killing red  They just weren't believing.  The appointment of a- Just weren't believing.  The appointment of a United States Supreme Court justice was much more important to the voters than I thought.  And they're right, because they will set policy for 50 years and they'll set policy, whether it's life, whether it's second amendment.  The second amendment, if I weren't president, you know the pressure, your second amendment would be obliterated.  It would maybe be gone, but at a minimum obliterated, they haven't touched your second amendment.  Not even touched it.  Because I'm here Mike Pence, they did a fantastic job.  Our doctors, and they don't get any credit because they want to discredit us as much as possible because they want it to carry over to November 3rd, but we've done a fantastic job.  I think we've probably done the best job of any country, certainly of any major country anywhere in the world on the pandemic.  Through our historic relief programs, we've saved more than 1. 6 million Michigan jobs, and over 128,000 Michigan businesses.  Michigan has already gained and regained more than half of the jobs that I'm talking about.  Look at you.  This is a very sophisticated group, Tom.  You know what I'm talking about, patriotic education.  Well, the first thing they do is they want to take your history away.  That's a great group behind me.  I don't know.  They're activists.  But you know what? You know what it means, they want to take away your history.  That's why the monuments and the statutes, they want to knock them down.  The first thing they do is take away your guts.  It's guts.  They fine gentlemen, president of Ukraine, the new president of Ukraine.  And we call them up and we said, "Would it be okay?" Our secretary of state made the call, "Would it be okay?" And they didn't know what we were talking about, but they said, "Yeah, it's okay. " And by the way, he, his foreign minister, everybody did you know they said, "There was no pressure.  He didn't do anything wrong.  There was no pressure put on us. " That didn't stop anybody but we released the conversation and that gummed it up.  Now, all we always have people, we haven't had an empty seat.  You look anywhere, North Carolina, Ohio, no matter where we go we pack it and we have thousands and thousands of people, we put screens outside.  I know tonight's not so good, we got a hundred degrees out, but you still have thousands of people out there.  We could have sold this arena out, you know that.  We could have sold this arena out tonight 10 times, can you believe that? 10 times.  I think that's like a poll, that's like a poll because when to use the incandescent light bulbs, I don't know about you, much less expensive lights that are beaming down over us.  But you know, somebody told me that as you know, they're much more expensive bulbs than for what you save.  But they said that if the bulb break, it's considered almost like the waste site.  It's very big, the bulbs, the new bulbs, they're very dangerous with all of the gases.  And I said, "What's the point?" Well, then he said, "Well, I'm saying if we continue that production, they can buy whatever they want Pocahontas doing, since she destroyed Bloomberg? How about Bloomberg? Did he get killed? Now he's trying to come back.  He's trying to buy his way back into the Democratic Party.  "I'm going to put up $100 million in Florida, we're going to go," he wants to be back so badly.  Here's a guy who spent $2 billion, it's almost two billion now, they're finding out.  He had some of the dumbest advisers, people I know, some of the dumbest people.  If he would have just kept spending a couple of hundred million dollars a week that city or that state.  So speak to your mayor.  You should be able to decide what is best for your own cities and for your own neighborhoods, and that's what you have the right to do right now.  And believe me, no other president would be doing that.  If Democrats were ever to seize power, they would open the floodgates to unvetted, uncontrolled migration at levels you have never seen before.  Do you think you have it bad now? You would never have seen anything like what they want to do.  But in did, they got worse.  They know they cannot win.  You understand.  Well, if you didn't understand, honestly, there's no way anybody could win, because you'd believe them.  If you believe them, there's no way anybody could … Because it's like 94% … I can do the greatest things in history, and they'll make them bad to very bad.  And if I do a neutral, something neutral, it worked out okay, not great, it's like, "Give him the electric chair.  That was terrible. " Right? No, this is the worst.  These people and the Scott, and the people get it and we thank you for your great reporting.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  And Scott reported everything about Omar is a fraud, including her name.  Scott reports his sources told him that, quote, Omar's legal husband was Omar's brother and that she had married him for fraudulent purposes.  You mean like coming into the United States, maybe? And as Scott says, "We have seen a plethora of congressional scandals in our history yet we have never seen scandals like Omar's in Congress, and nothing gets done about it. growers.  We saved your tobacco growers.  We have them very much in our sites.  We want to help them.  The Biden agenda would crush this comeback and put our families in grave danger.  Biden is promising to reimpose job-destroying regulations.  We got rid of more regulations, he wants to put those regulations back plus 50%.  You couldn't build a road.  We took roads from 18, 19, and even 20 years approval down to two and we'll have it down to one.  You may get rejected for a highway or for a we're building auto plants, we're building everything.  And there's never been a comeback like we're making right now.  Never been.  He hollowed out our middle class, including our black middle class with open borders.  Trapped young children in failing government schools, built cages.  Those cages were built by Obama and Biden.  Look it up, 2014.  And the fake news doesn't wanted to… Remember the picture of the cage? A cage for children.  Remember the picture of the cage.  And they said President Trump.  And then they realized that was at This is the expensive version.  This is the best version.  This is steel, and concrete, and rebar in between.  It's really something.  Did you see the other day where drug dealers got caught at the top? They couldn't get over.  We had to get the fire department to get them down.  They couldn't get over and they're like mountain climbers.  They got used to climbing.  They got caught because you know that panel? That's an anti-climb panel.  It's very hot and very tough.  It's a very hard panel to climb,  We're not letting you land your plane. " So we have the government flying the plane all over trying to get a couple prisoners, bad people back.  Now they take them back.  You know why? Because we said, "Look, if you don't take them back, we're going to put tariffs on every single thing you sell. " Now they say, "We'd love to take them back.  We'd love to take them back.  We'll take them back gladly, sir. " No, they couldn't get them back.  We'd take off with these absolutely gang members an I said to our great first lady, I said, "Let me ask you a question.  Was it that good of a speech that I'm trending number one? Because I felt it was really good. " No no, they don't even mention the speech.  They mention the fact that you may have Parkinson's disease.  It's true.  It's true.  It's true.  They say there is something wrong with our president.  I'll let you know if there's something wrong, okay? I'll let you know if there's something, I'll tell you what, there's something wrong with Biden, and some of the people, not all of them, but some of the people back there, "Oh, how dare you.  These are friendly protesters, right?" Friendly … They're just looking for trouble.  Has nothing to do with George Floyd.  Has nothing to do with anything.  They don't even know who George Floyd is.  Okay? They don't know who George Floyd.  They have no idea.  If you ask them, "Who's George Floyd?" They couldn't even tell you.  These are just bad people, troublemakers and they shouldn't be representing our country at important events country a victory.  She's very busy doing other things.  Having fun.  The USMCA will be a massive victory for Mississippi's farmers and also includes powerful protections for Mississippi auto workers, manufacturers, and everybody else.  It's a great agreement.  About time we got rid of NAFTA.  The do-nothing Democrats need to stop their madness and pass the USMCA right now.  The last administration's horrendous Trans-Pacific Partnership would have destroyed the US auto industry, but I proudly, first thing, withdrew from that job-killing calamity.  Under our policies, Toyota has just announced a $170 million all time low in recorded history.  African-American poverty has reached the lowest rate ever recorded also.  The only question are you at 70, 80, 90, 97%? He goes higher.  What are you at? What's yours? 100%.  Not bad.  I know who he's voting for.  But think of this, because this is what it's about.  Is that these companies, these big public companies, they're owned by the people, they're owned by everybody.  Rich people, and they're owned by everybody.  We have set 141 records on the stock market, highest levels ever in in history and a group of very smart people walk in and say, "Sir, we have to close it. " And we did the right thing.  We closed it.  Well, actually he didn't think we should close it yet.  But later on, he said, "We did the right thing. " We closed it.  We closed it.  We saved millions of lives.  If we wouldn't have closed it, we would've been talking two and a half or three million.  We're at 180.  It's far too much.  But we would have been talking  138? Didn't put them up, couldn't get them approved.  I don't know what happened, but we started off with 138, now we're up to 180.  I just signed my 150th federal judge, and court of appeals judge, and we already have two great Supreme Court justices, Gorsuch, and Kavanaugh.  Great, great men.  So think of that.  You know, you come in, and I've always heard the most important thing a president does, I disagree with this by the way, but that's okay.  I disagree with a lot of things.  Because I think her.  It's not going to be her.  Can't be, I don't think.  Alfred E.  Neuman, ladies and gentlemen, introducing president Alfred E.  Neuman.  Nobody knows because you're all too young.  Nobody knows who Alfred… it's Mad Magazine.  They all said… No.  Howdy Doody.  See nobody knows who Alfred E.  Neuman is.  Only the real aficionados.  They're the ones and they love it.  But that's only 15% of the crowd, right? Am I right? Better than Howdy Doody.  Howdy Doody.  And that's what happens when countries.  Ask China, "How many countries are you protecting President Xi?" And they look at me like, "What a stupid question.  We protect one.  China. " You ask President Putin, "How many countries are you protecting President Putin?" And he looks and he goes, "Russia. " You ask other countries … we're protecting at least 94.  In fact, so many they can't even tell me.  I've been trying to get an answer for four months.  So many they can't even tell.  It's crazy, but it's all beautiful the way it's happening.  A American ancestors crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, landed men on the face of the moon, and made America the greatest nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater than ever before.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep you want to shut down sanctuary cities, if you want to protect your family and your loved ones, you must vote Republican in 2020.  And you have some great ones here, Michael.  Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings eight straight months in a row.  And as the wall gets longer, it gets easier and easier.  Remember when the Democrats were saying, "you don't need a wall. " Two things that never change, right? All these computers, they said, "use drones. " Oh great, we'll fly over with in Ohio has surged 63%.  They want to close it up.  By the way, you do know they want to close it up.  They want to close up all fracking natural gas ever.  They want to close it up.  This would kill at least 700,000 Ohio jobs.  Probably more than a million.  While I'm president, America will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas and Ohio workers will continue leading the way.  I just left the great state of Texas, and I talked to a lot of people like We pass criminal justice reform to give former prisoners a second chance at life.  Most incredible thing that's happened.  Prisoners never really had a shot.  They'd get out, they couldn't get a job no matter what they did, and they'd go back.  They'd go back to their ways.  I mean, in many cases I guess they had no choice.  It was a disaster.  Now they're getting out and because our economy is so good and because of what we've done with criminal justice reform and other things like opportunities, zones, et cetera, they're not once but twice for totally separate events by different people. " Great people.  "First lady, I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. " I was like this.  "I was nominated. " It's a big deal for our country, right? And she said, "Oh, that's good. " I said, "Let's turn on the evening news.  Let's watch it.  This is going to be a big show tonight.  Get ready. " And NBC, which is one of the most crooked, one of the worst newscasts, and I'm talking about normal NBC, not MSDNC.  MSDNC in the most violent way.  Right here in Wisconsin, cities run by far left politicians are releasing dangerous criminal aliens who abuse, assault and threaten innocent children.  Your children.  Last year, a place I like, the sanctuary County of Milwaukee, released an illegal alien criminal with multiple charges for sexual assault of child.  Think of that, of children.  He's now at large.  They're searching all over and he's looking for yet another victim.  They're searching all over.  Allowed to go from your sanctuary city.  In the city of Madison, police arrested  I'm just your representative, but they like us.  They like us.  They haven't seen anything like that in a long time.  They went around, did you see it? They went around the flag.  They didn't want to touch it.  They love America.  They love our country.  That's called progress.  That's called progress.  But the Democrats are doing everything possible to disparage what we did with the hit on this monster.  Many of the young men and women you see walking around without arms, without legs and without … were to block.  I'm a blocking force.  I'm like a lineman for the Pittsburgh Steelers.  I'm a blocking force.  No, they haven't touched it.  But your second amendment would be under siege.  So nobody knew.  I never knew.  You hear about Supreme Court, you know about Supreme Court, you know about other judges, by the way at the end of the first term, we'll be close to 300 federal judges, including court of appeals, which I think is a record.  I guess it's a record.  It's a lot.  That's a  And she wears that dress right through the middle of Hollywood and everyone says, thank you very much.  Beautiful.  Like it.  But they want to indoctrinate your children and implement a ruin or shutdown of the United States economy again.  Biden said the other day, well, if the experts told me.  We're not shutting it down again.  We don't have to.  We learned about the disease.  We did the right thing.  We saved millions of lives.  People don't realize we saved millions of lives and hundreds of thousands of Hispanic-Americans, they understand, they don't want criminals coming across the border.  They don't want people taking their jobs.  They want to have that security, and they want the wall.  They want the wall.  And we have a man in the audience who is, I think, the best dressed man in this entire place, including me, right here.  Look at him.  Come here.  Look at him.  Look at this guy.  And he's been to a couple of rallies too, haven't you? Huh? We have some people, a group of people the other  I don't think that's going to happen, folks.  I don't think that's going to happen.  Only with fixed poles does that happen? Unemployment for African Americans.  You've heard me say this many times, and I'm very proud of it.  Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans have all reached their lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our county.  Wages are rising quickly.  Remember when I used to say people have been working two and three jobs making less money than they made 21 years ago? I used to say it all the time. ran, Steve Forbes, he ran twice.  He was in for a lot.  Then they had Donald Trump.  Now, this is your own money.  This is your own money.  I said I'd spend a lot of money on my primaries.  We'll see how the hell we do.  It's amazing.  Once you win, money comes in.  It comes in pretty fast.  What's that all about? But so in the middle they had Trump, and then they had four or five that were behind me.  Lot of money spent.  Loss, loss, " "Well look, where is it?" "Here take it, blah blah blah. "" They even have a provision where you don't have to verify signatures.  What is going on? And they have another provision in some states where you can harvest, that's where you grab them all together and drop them.  In Nevada, they actually have a provision where they don't have to be counted until seven days after the election.  So that means if we have a close election, could be close, I hope it's not, I hope we have a landslide like you've never seen. Joe, thanks, Joe.  Where have you been for 47 years? Because for 47 years, Joe Biden did the opposite.  He crushed the dreams of American workers and enriched foreign countries.  That's how China happened.  Hey, look what I've done.  I've taken billions, tens of billions of dollars out of China.  Nobody else did it before me, I mean, no other president.  In all fairness, in all fairness to Obama and Biden, I call him, Obiden because it's easier, Obiden.  In all fairness to Obiden, I mean, they didn't do any of that. inspired by the words of the New Hampshire state motto.  Have you ever heard of these words? Live free or die.  Live free or die.  Vote for those people.  And you do, you have a great governor.  Vote for your people, vote for your governor.  You have a great governor.  From Portsmouth to Dixville from Concord to Keene.  I know a friend from Keene.  Great guy.  I had a friend from Keene a long time.  Keene, New Hampshire.  And Merrimack to Manchester, we will fight for every job, by China, and it's a disgrace.  It's a disgrace.  They could have stopped it.  They stopped it from going into China, but not going to the rest of the world, including our country.  It's a disgrace.  But think of it.  Joe Biden got the worst marks you've ever seen for his handling of the H1NI Swine flu.  They said it was incompetent, and the head guy, who now he's trying to retract.  It's a little tough.  That's one great thing about the tape.  He said it was horrible.  He And every week she went down, down 15 points, 12 points, 11 points, 9 points, six points, five points, four points, two points.  Didn't she leave at about two or one? She was heading down to the basement.  She was so mean to him.  I felt sorry for him.  No, I did.  I felt sorry.  So she called them everything from a racist to a MeTooer.  He was MeToo.  He was a part of the MeToo generation.  What she called him, what she said.  So I brilliantly said, "Well, he 200.  It's … … than that.  Wait, I want to see that again, 200.  It says 200.  Do you believable it? That's a lot.  You know, I have a choice between teleprompter and freelance.  I hate to say, the freelance is always a hell of a lot better, but … If you remember, and you remember well, I actually got elected because of freelance.  We didn't have teleprompters.  There were no teleprompters.  But think of that, 200, we're talking about 200 plants.  I thought it was a much lower number. the other side.  Open your schools, open up.  We got to open up this state.  And I guarantee you … And by the way, the states that are open are doing really well.  They're doing much better than the ones that are closed.  I don't know if you've been seeing the numbers.  And this is just arithmetic.  The states that are open are doing great.  The states that are closed, North Carolina, what he's doing to that great state, he's got it locked down, shut down.  Michigan, what she's doing.  That's the nicest call I've ever tracked.  Somebody said, I never knew you could be so nice on a telephone call.  But this is all based on a simple phone call that was totally appropriate where the president of Ukraine said there was no pressure on us.  Didn't even know what they were talking about.  The foreign minister said they want to impeach.  Impeach the president of the United States over a perfect phone call.  It's the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on our country.  Ever.  I don't know if you've seen.  happening, really big in Wisconsin.  And we have incredible things going on in Pennsylvania.  We just opened up a $10 billion plant.  We have many of them going up.  Many of them, a lot of jobs.  In Louisiana, an LNG plant $10 billion.  Could never have happened, could never have happened.  Pennsylvania would have never happened.  They wouldn't have allowed him to frack.  So they would've never been able to build it.  But what a place that is, it will be open in a little more than a year, but I opened it up, an executive order.  I totally opened it up.  I did many other things.  Then I got the tariffs.  They couldn't do business in European Union, they couldn't do business in China, because they were charging tariffs to Maine.  So Canada would take our fish and lobster.  We'd sell it to Canada for nothing, and they'd sell it to China and Europe, because they didn't have to pay tariffs.  Not only did I get the 5,000 … Think of what, 5,000 square miles.  So you take one mile, square Joe Biden, trying to tell me how to do it.  And, his own man who headed it up, swine flu, it's H1N1 swine flu.  Joe called it, N1H1.  I keep saying Joe, Joe, it's H1N1, right.  I said, "It's easier to remember because H comes before N," but he can't do it.  And then, you saw what he said the other day under a Harris-Biden administration.  That was a disaster.  I never said under a Pence Trump administration, he said, "Under a Harris-Biden administration. " And, what made it worse, is she said wedding.  33.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  Lock her up.  She's a beauty.  How about last week? Did you hear? I don't know who Tulsi Gabbard is, but I know one thing.  She's not an agent of Russia.  And Jill Stein, she's a greenie.  That's fine.  We love the and states.  All of them, every single one.  The Republicans are doing great, but they have to ask.  By law, they have to ask us to go in.  But do you remember that beautiful day? It was 10 days late.  You had these people from CNN and other places.  "These are friendly protests. " That's a lovely thing to say.  As he's getting rocks and cans of tuna fish.  They go out to buy tuna fish and soup.  You know that, right? Goya.  I hope Goya, he's great, isn't he? citizen deserves a government that defends your jobs, your safety, your family, and is always loyal to you.  Your politicians have not been loyal to you.  They have been loyal to themselves.  The Democrats are also trying to turn every city in America into a sanctuary for criminal aliens, and that's one of the very good reasons we won on Tuesday night, North Carolina, because they let people out of their sanctuary city and what those people did, I will not tell you tonight, but it wasn't good.  It's one of the reasons we had big up until the very moment of birth.  This is why in my state of the union address, did you like it? Good.  It's a different kind of address.  You know, we can go lots of different ways, right? Presidential, not presidential.  I was presidential.  Totally.  You'd have about three people standing here, but I asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant join our incredible movement.  We are a big tent and a big party with big, bold, beautiful ideas for the future.  We're what the country was based on originally.  It was called greatness.  It was called greatness.  During National School Choice Week, School Choice everybody, we continue our fight to rescue children trapped in failing government schools.  Iowa became one of the first states to pass School Choice.  That was over 10 years ago.  Now Governor Reynolds, Senator Ernst, Senator Grassley, and more than 100 members of Congress are supporting our plan the deal, if I have your permission, we renegotiated the deal and now we have a good deal with South Korea, okay? This deal is going to produce, remember… This deal is going to produce 250,000 jobs for South Korea.  She didn't lie.  Can't say she lied.  She lies about a lot of other things, but she didn't lie.  How is she taking her defeat? Okay? I think so.  Remember the debate? Do you promise if you lose that you will support the winner and I sort of, I didn't exactly say yes.  I new Shell Petrochemical Plant in Beaver County at $6 billion with a B, $6 billion.  It is the largest investment in Pennsylvania history.  We're ending decades of failed trade policies that devastated communities all across the state.  For generations, American manufacturing was the bedrock of your economy, the bedrock.  Remember the last administration, " You need a magic wand.  It'll never come back. " We found the magic wand, didn't we? Then came NAFTA, the NAFTA disaster, I call it, one of the worst trade deals in the history of any country and the loss got nominated, he didn't know why he was nominated.  It was like right at the very beginning.  He didn't do anything.  He did nothing and he got nominated.  It was the biggest story I've ever seen.  But that's okay.  In the meantime, we're President and they're not.  No, that's right.  You would think if you nominated for the Nobel Prize, you'd get maybe half a second.  The First Lady, she said, "Sorry, darling.  That's the way it goes, isn't it?" Joe Biden opposed the mission to take out Osama bin American agriculture like you have never had before.  It's time.  We suffered for a year and a half, almost two years.  Think of it, but not really because I was able to give you those, I won't call them subsidies.  I made that mistake once with the farmers.  I said to this group of farmers that came in, "Subsidy. " I used the word subsidy.  That was the worst word, "Sir, we don't watch subsidy! Please don't ever use that word. " I said, "I won't, I promise. " Just in that small, little it wasn't that word that caught on.  It was deplorable.  The next day I'm speaking, and women are walking around, I'm deplorable.  Everyone's got deplorable.  I say, "I think she made a bad speech last night. " But irredeemable, remember? She called them deplorable and irredeemable, and me being so brilliant, I said, "I think that irredeemables going to get her. " No, deplorable got her.  A lot her like lack of ability.  Together we are going to win back the House.  We are going to hold the Senate, and we are going did, they targeted our farmers.  I said, congratulations.  That's compliments of China.  And they do.  They want to make a deal so badly.  Frankly, honestly, they want to make a deal a lot more than I want to make a deal.  That's the way it is.  Because we're doing very well right now with China.  We're replacing the NAFTA disaster with the US, Mexico, Canada agreement.  A huge win for Kentucky farmers, for Kentucky auto workers, for Kentucky manufacturers.  Unfortunately, Nancy Pelosi so far and the do nothing Democrats don't Darling, it's so sad.  But we got them.  Joe Biden has put forward the most extreme platform and it's not him.  He doesn't know what platform.  He doesn't.  It's your radical left people.  It's AOC plus three.  It's all these people.  Bernie.  It's Bernie.  It's Kamala, the most liberal person in the US Senate.  I tell it all the time.  She started off her poll numbers at 15, 14, 12, 12.  Then she went back up to 12 and a half.  Then there was a big mine.  Very, very slippery.  So I end up saying, "Okay, general, let's go.  I will only grab you if I need you.  That's not a good story.  Falling would be a disaster.  It turned out to be worse than anything, I would have been better off if I fell and slid down the damn ramp.  Right? So what happens is I start the journey, inch by inch, right? I was really bent over too.  I didn't like that.  I didn't like this picture.  This picture I'm sure will be an for the record books.  The Evangelicals called some of the greatest pastors, ministers, preachers, and they just called today, five of the most respected people.  They said things that were incredible.  They said, "There's never been anything like this in the church that they can …" Some of them have been doing it for 30, 40 years.  They said, "We have never seen enthusiasm like we see for this President and for this Presidency, all of us, like we have right now. " … He never said that before.  Billy Graham wasn't somebody that would We were beating China.  Remember, if you go back, some of you go back, if you go back 10 years, 15 years, five years, everything was … In 2019, China will overtake the United States as the largest economy.  And that didn't work out too well for them.  That didn't work out.  We were just doing leaps and bounds.  We were doing so great, and then we got hit with the plague, the China plague.  And we're not thrilled.  It's a disgrace.  Nobody should have died.  Nobody should have died.  me.  He goes, and he's a real pro.  One of the top in the country.  He said, "Sir," and nobody wanted to do it because it's a little bit controversial and a lot of the drug companies don't exactly love it.  The hospitals don't love it, but I got to do what's right for you.  The people, I don't care, I'm not.  I got to do it.  But he looked at me.  And this is why I did it.  It was one phrase.  You know, do you ever do where the greatest thing we can do is not get people started on drugs, right.  Not get them started.  It's hard to get off.  You know, we can get them off and we're doing it and it's been done.  But it's hard to get off.  If they never start.  It's real easy.  It's real easy.  So we're trying to get young kids, you won't see the fruits of this labor for a little while because it takes a while.  But we're really, we are working so hard on advertising and promotions to suburbs of our great country.  And I got rid of it.  They said, "Sir, we can amend it and make it less crazy. " I said, "No, I don't want to amend it.  I don't want to do that.  I want to get rid of it. " "Well, sir, why don't we just do a simple amendment? It would be" … I said, "I want to get rid of it.  End it. " And we ended it.  We ended it.  I think the people living in the suburbs … which I know very chant.  This can only happen to me.  Fill that seat.  Now it says the president is supposed to fill the seat, right? And that's what we're going to do.  We're going to fill the seat.  With a great hat.  I want to try one of those hats.  I love that.  No, think of it.  29 times, every single time nobody said, "Oh, let's not fill the seat. " We won the election.  Now then we have some senators that, forget it.  Think of it, I won't say it.  see how this works.  Some people are being, many people are being saved.  And you know, the drug companies didn't like it because they didn't want to take people that sick, because they didn't want it on their charts.  I said, "I understand that.  We won't include that.  We'll have a separate list over here. " They said, "Oh, would you do that?" I said, "Yeah, I'll do that, I'll do that. " But I didn't talk about Right to Try.  I never said I was going to get that done, we got it Forces.  This by itself would be a big achievement.  This is one of so many different things, Right to Try, the military, the vets, everything.  We've done so much, but we … 75 years, right? Last one was the Air Force.  The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines, the Coast Guard, they're so good.  We have another one now, for 75 years, Space Force.  We need it.  I never even promised that.  Right? One of them said recently that, "He's actually done more than he promised in the campaign. " great family, and Chris is doing a fantastic job.  If you want to shut down sanctuary cities, if you want to protect your family and your loved ones, you must vote Republican in 2020, November.  And thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings eight straight months in a row.  Illegal crossings are down now at record numbers and we've ended catch and release.  You know what catch and release is? You catch an illegal alien by law.  You then take his name and address.  They don't stomp on it or just burn it, they go to jail for one year, okay? In Seattle the Democrat mayor and the Democrat city council have surrendered control of six city blocks to an anarchist … Now these are anarchists, these are not protestors.  You listen to the fake news, they say, "Oh, the protesters were lovely. " Could you imagine if people just even slightly to the right tried to take over Seattle? They'd have machine guns out to get them, but these people can take over the city, look at what they've done to businesspeople that have the ballots, the unsolicited ballots.  Will you watch it, please? Okay, all right.  All right, James Settelmeyer.  Where's James? James, look at James, whoa.  Look at the size of James, I want you protecting me, James.  James is good.  You're doing well, I saw a good poll for you too.  I think we're all doing well.  I think we're all doing well, it's like a family.  Thank you James very much.  All of you guys, thank you very much.  A woman who did a fantastic job, she headed up they said, "The Campaign To Impeach President Trump Has Begun. " That was the headline.  Little did we know they weren't playing games.  Think of that.  That was 19 minutes after the oath of office.  Months earlier, Peter Strzok, remember, he and his lover, Lisa Page.  What a group.  "She's going to win 10 million to one.  She's going to win.  I'm telling you, Peter.  I'm telling you, Peter, she's going to win.  Peter.  Oh, I love you so much. " "I love you, Peter. " "I love you have the weakest walls in the history of any country? You can't do anything to stop them.  You have program, catch and release.  You catch them and then you have to release them, and they're suppose to come back to court in the next three, four, fix, six years, and nobody shows up, and Democrats don't want to fix it.  So we're stopping them, so we don't even have to worry about court.  We ended the last administrations cruel war on American energy.  The United States is now the number one producer of oil and going up.  We're going up.  … Clean coal.  What they do with coal today is incredible, clean coal.  With the help of energy workers right here in Ohio, the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world by far, number one.  We were number one.  … You know, there's a state known as Texas, and I won Texas by a lot, just like I won Ohio by a lot.  How would you like to go into Texas and say, "By the way, we don't about the impeachment hoax.  They talk about all the other stuff, but the trade deal, that is going to change our country.  It's going to bring growth.  Wait until you see, toward the end of next year, the growth will be astronomical because of the China Trade Deal, the U. S. M. C. A, Japan, South Korea, Europe, when that happens.  It will happen because they have no choice.  They have no choice.  But in the papers, and on the fake news cable shows, and the regular, look, NBC is horrible, the NBC Nightly another new record.  Think of it.  Who would have thought the stock market? And hopefully we're at the end of this horrible China virus.  Came from China.  They should have stopped it and they did.  But who would have thought, just who would have thought that the stock market is at record levels right now? Record levels.  And everything else is going to follow.  Before the virus, we created an economic miracle and now we're doing it again.  We did the Paycheck Protection Program where we saved more than 200,000 jobs in So women and men, ready? Would you rather have a woman on the Supreme Court or would you rather have a man? Ready? A woman or a man.  So, would you rather have me choose, this is a very scientific poll.  Actually, it's a lot more accurate than these polls that interview like 97 people have been interviewed, then they charge you a million dollars and they probably don't interview the people.  They sit behind their desk.  Would you rather have a woman on the Supreme Court? Yes, woman.  Yes? Tom tiller says yes.  out and vote for governor Matt Bevin and all of these great Republicans.  With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress.  2020, we're going to re-elect because of their stupidity.  These people are on the run, and I will campaign in every one of those states that were so corrupt if they raise their hand.  And don't forget.  Out of 194, we got 194, not one Republican left us last week.  And tell you that you have incredible representatives, and the job that Matt Bevin has done as governor, he's had to do some things that you had to do.  And he's done unbelievably well.  It sets you up to be a rocket ship in the future.  You had to do it.  So I just want to thank him for having the courage to do what he had to do.  You have the best numbers you've ever had in the history of the state.  And with the help of your Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, we so great.  But these kids and these people come from rough places.  And I'll tell you what, some of them said, "We've never lived like this before. " They have water, they have air conditioning, they have things that they've never seen.  And we listen to her talking about drinking water from toilets, which was a lie, which was a lie.  Cortez said that illegal immigrants are more American than any person who seeks to keep them out ever will be, can you believe that? That's what she say.  She described contemporary America, that's you, in other states where they're sending out, they're going to be sending out 80 million ballots.  And it's Democrats.  They're trying to rig this election, at every single place in the last year, year and a half, go modern day, forget about… Tiny amounts, a congressional race in New York, a small number of votes.  If you go to New Jersey, if you go to Virginia, if you go to Pennsylvania, if you go to California, look at some of these races, every one of these races was a fraud, missing ballots.  And I don't mean him?" Oh what a sick guy he is.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion.  Ripping babies straight from the mother's womb.  Right up until the moment of birth.  That is why I have asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, Socialism, and blatant corruption.  No matter how you cut it, that's what it is.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, there, and we took it from all over the place, and we got that thing.  That's the biggest patchwork of financing you've ever seen, and that sucker is going up, and it is the finest, it is the strongest, it's largely 30 feet tall, which is the maximum height that they wanted.  I went to the Border Patrol, and I sat down with 15 representatives of the Border Patrol, and I said, "What do you want? What's your ideal?" I actually said, "I want to give you the Rolls Royce," and they killed me for that.  They heard, we added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone.  Way above anticipated schedule.  And that makes 7 million new jobs since the election.  The number was supposed to be under 2 million and we added 7 million.  And remember, if I give you wrong numbers, the fake news is going to have headlines.  "Trump gave you wrong…" I mean, it's very tough.  I've got to be very careful.  Even if I give you wrong in the wrong way, they'll say it was wrong.  I said, "Yeah, but it was wrong in the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, raised up the skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and you haven't seen anything yet.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, that or people that just don't like our country very much.  But Biden replied yes, he'll get rid of those jobs.  And he famously told a voter, "I want you to look in my eyes," when he's not wearing the mask because I've never seen a man that liked their mask.  Look, I'm all for it, we have a big weekend, distance on the weekend, and all of that stuff, and wear your mask when you're close together in particular, and wash your hands, all those things.  We have Labor Day Weekend coming up.  But always respect our great American flag.  We live by the words of our national motto, "In God we trust. " From Nashua to Dixville, from Portsmouth to Plymouth, from Concord to Claremont, and from Meredith to right here in Manchester, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded American Patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and defend our freedom.  New Hampshire was founded by tough frontier men and strong, powerful pioneer women who defied the dangers and raised their children to embrace the eternal motto, "Live free or die. " I love would think? It almost sounds like an ancient crime.  It's not.  It's very modern because of the internet because of the computer.  And it's a horrible thing and we've stopped so much of it.  We have an incredible group of people that go after these animals.  And we built now over 320 miles of border wall and are adding 10 new miles a week.  And the wall will very soon be finished.  It'll be finished.  We've invested $2. 5 trillion in the US military.  We've rebuilt our depleted… It was a a great trade deal but the ink wasn't dry when the plague came in so I view that trade deal much differently than I did before, much differently.  It's a great deal.  They just last week, they ordered the biggest order of corn in history, the biggest order of soybeans in history, and I say just shows you though they're smart, very smart.  Instead of saying he's not talking very nicely about us and we're not going to order any more, we're not going to do business, no.  Instead they do the opposite.  They give want to see those agreements. " "I," "You open up those agreements. " This poor guy probably signed a hundred of them and each one's a disaster.  He said, "I don't want to open those agreements.  Nobody told me this was going to happen. " Said, "Actually, sir. " "Nobody told me.  Get me out of here. " After the debate, he went backstage, fired a lot of people.  He said, "How the hell did you get me into this thing?" But Pocahontas was really mean, but she's going to be easy.  I hope it's I did it and people get it.  It was a rip off of the United States.  I withdrew from the catastrophe because I was elected to fight for Pittsburgh, not for Paris.  This election is a choice between Pennsylvania and China, if Biden wins, China wins.  When we win, Pennsylvania wins and America wins.  For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars that never ended and defending foreign borders.  But now we're finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and Now tomorrow, like fake news, CNN, he was playing games with the United States.  It is a terrible thing he's done.  No, I'm just taking a poll, please.  And by the way, that's a very accurate poll, because that's the way I feel.  It will be a woman, a very talented, very brilliant woman.  Who I haven't chosen yet, but we have numerous women on the list.  I built this incredible list of brilliant people.  And we're asking for Biden's list.  He can't give it.  You know why? Because if he doing a great job for Michigan.  Just to finish in the Middle East, we killed the founder and leader of Isis, Al-Baghdadi.  And by the way, we're pulling back and we're doing everything so beautifully.  If we do get into war, we win the war.  We don't fight for nothing.  We fought for nothing.  We don't ever want to have war but if there is a war, nobody's going to even come close to being able to beat us.  And we won't be depleted from fighting in all these ridiculous locations all over week?" I say, "I don't know. " Then I leave and she said, "Sir, can you come back in three days?" I said, "I don't know. " Then I do it and she said, "How about another time?" And then on election night she said, "Sir," it was six o'clock the day before the election.  In other words, just a short while before the election.  She calls me, "Sir, can you be here tonight?" I said "Tonight?" And by the way, you know where I was? I was in New Hampshire.  That's right.  She said, "Sir, born for this. " As soon as I hear somebody's born for running for president, I said, "He's out.  That's the end of him. " Nobody's born for this.  This is tough stuff.  I had a great life, I'll tell you.  My life was so beautiful.  What the hell did I do this for? But you know what? You know what? We are doing things that nobody's ever done before.  And I say it all the time, and that's what makes me happy.  We're dealing with very sick and very bad and evil feel badly because we have some troops … "Well you haven't pulled the troops. " No no, we're gone, we pulled all the troops out of Syria.  Remember we were supposed to be guarding the border between Syria and Turkey? I said, "Why are we doing that?" They said, "Well, we are. " I said, "Wait a minute, we have an army of 100,000 here, an army of 25,000, 30,000 here.  We got 5,000 soldiers.  That's a very dangerous position to be in. " I don't like it.  They've been guarding their own borders with different  Thought of by AOC plus three.  You know AOC? and she's got them.  She's radical left, but she's not as bad as some of them.  How about Omar of Minnesota? We're going to win the state of Minnesota because of her, they say.  He's telling us how to run our country.  How did you do where you came from? How is your country doing? She's going to tell us, she's telling us how to run our country.  You know what? The Democrats in Congress, you have to see what they are doing.   They just made it up.  Hey, I woke up, and I was in a bad mood.  True.  I've actually had a … I've been in a good mood, because we're doing so much for our country.  We've done so much for our country.  But at the NATO meeting, one of the presidents of one of the good countries, all good, they said, "Sir, does this mean that if we don't pay, does this mean that you're going to leave, and you're not going to protect us?" I said, "Yes.  That's what it means. spend on other country's militaries, but it's coming down.  And I'm telling other countries, I'm sorry, you're going to have to pay now.  I'm sorry.  Pay.  Pay.  Pay, you got to pay.  And they poured precious American blood and treasure into the Middle East while our great cities fell into decay and disrepair.  We go in for internet.  We want rural, we'll bring it in.  And we're bringing 5g into places like Kentucky that haven't been properly served.  We're bringing it in all over the middle West, all over the health insurance premiums massively, and the cost of prescription drugs went down the first time in 51 years, last year.  But now it's going to go down very big, because we did a favorite nation's clause.  I see the drug companies are, they're killing me with ads.  They have nothing but cash.  They have nothing but money.  They're spending because they can't believe … Germany and other countries pay much less than we do.  We want to have, what we have to have, is we have to have a comparison of prices.  That's say this out of ego, but I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.  Now, I have to tell you, that's sort of a big thing and the networks and most of the news didn't cover it.  Could you imagine? When Obama came to office, they said, "We're going to give him the Nobel Peace Prize. " He actually said, "What did I do? I didn't do anything. " He didn't do anything for eight years, frankly.  But he said, "What did I do?" They gave it to them in a matter of weeks, right? Weeks.  we would have.  We also know from a previous inspector general investigation that many of these same high ranking officials were consumed with anti- Trump and anti-Trump people hatred and bias, texting about an insurance policy, let's have an insurance… remember? Remember? Peter Strzok and his lover, Lisa Page.  Remember? "Lisa, I love you so much.  Lisa, please, Lisa please.  Lisa, I've never loved anyone like you.  We won't allow this to happen to our country.  Lisa, please tell me you love me.  Lisa, I love you. " "Peter, I love you.  we're building a lot of wall and we hope if we can win that final one, it's so important it's going before the Supreme Court, we'll have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year.  So go out, get Greg elected.  Great victory, by the way, that was a great primary and a great victory.  That same day there's another crucial election in North Carolina's 9th… Right, you know what we're talking about? 9th, I know it's not here, but it's very close, right? 9th Congressional district.  The Democrat in the race they were right next to each other.  They were right next to each other.  They were touching arms and they had big, strong arms like these guys right over here.  There were big strong guys.  That's all right.  They were like together.  Then you saw the first line.  Then you saw the second line, then you saw a third line, and then you saw a fourth line.  Then they said, "March. " They never halted.  Just walked right through, cleaned everything up, and Minneapolis was cured.  They were cured.  again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you, Mississippi.  Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you.  I love New Jersey and I'm thrilled to be back right here in the Garden State.  Thank you.  The Garden State.  Together we're achieving historic victories for New Jersey families.  You see it every single day.  The New Jersey unemployment rate has reached the lowest of all time.  More people are working today in the state of New Jersey than ever before.  I have to tell you more people, almost 160 eight, five, three, two.  Then she goes, "I'm going to leave because I've decided that I want to leave.  I want to leave. " She left because she wouldn't have gotten any votes.  She was terrible.  This would be your president possibly.  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I want to see the first woman president also, but I don't want to see a woman president get into that position the way she do it and she's not competent.  She's not competent.  They're all saying we want Ivanka.  great people.  You have a lot of great people out there.  Right here in Des Moines, a twice deported, illegal alien was charged with shooting and killing a woman, her 11-year-old daughter, and her five-year-old son.  In this region of the county alone, last year, ICE officers arrested nearly 4,000 illegal aliens charged or convicted of heinous crimes, including robbery, rape, and murder.  Yet today's Democrat Party glorifies illegal immigration.  We have no idea, now we do now, but people would come in by the hundreds of thousands.  We have no idea who they of everyone, everyone. " But, I never forgot when CNN fake news and all these people, they go around interviewing the farmers.  They could never find anyone saying bad about Trump.  They'd go into diners.  "What do you think about Trump? Isn't it a terrible what he's doing with the trade?" The farmer would say, "No, he's doing what should have been done 20 years ago. " Now, you people are going to make so much money.  You're not going to do just, you know what? Just relax.  Take it easy.  Put it away. their thumb in their mouth saying, "Mommy, Mommy, take me home. " These are bad people.  The Democrat politicians we're fighting today are the same ones who took a sledgehammer to Ohio jobs in factories.  They destroyed your factories.  They destroyed your jobs.  But they're losing and we're winning and America's comeback continues full speed ahead.  On no issue have Democrat politicians more clearly betrayed the American people than the issue of illegal immigration.  Far left radical politicians support deadly sanctuary cities and demonstrated their contempt, scorn, and disdain for everyday Americans and the there to hurt us, in my opinion.  It was put in there to hurt us.  We were paying money to India.  We were paying money to China.  China's didn't kick in until 2030, we kicked in immediately.  We had to pay money.  Russia kicked in, in 20 … Let's see, they kicked in before.  They were 1990, wait, they were 1996.  That was a very dirty period of air, so, they didn't have … We kick in now, and that, it's just unacceptable.  We would have spent trillions and trillions of like to have Joe Biden take over negotiations right now with China? I don't think so.  I don't think so.  Meanwhile, Biden allowed China to rip off America for eight years as vice president, and Barack Obama let him just rob us blind, and we're not doing that anymore.  Those days are over.  The Bidens got rich and that is substantiated.  While America got robbed, that's what happened.  Sleepy Joe and his friends out America, they didn't have tough negotiations.  I look at these trade deals and I say, "Who the hell could Tell me, was that the most exciting evening in the history of television? Did you ever see the ratings, the combined ratings? I think the biggest ever.  But was that the most exciting? 2016, was that the most exciting evening in the history of television? We invested $2. 5 trillion in the U. S.  military, including more than $6 billion in contracts.  I'll tell you what, you like the word pronounced Lima or Lima, because I saved Lima.  And I tell you what, I saved Lima.  I came here and they were going to close by Anderson Cooper yesterday? Anderson Cooper.  He's interviewed me a lot over the years and I always got along with him, but they were tough interviews.  Did you hear the questions? And Biden kept looking down.  I think he was reading the answers off a teleprompter.  Right? I think he was reading the answers off a teleprompter.  And that's happened before.  And how about David Muir of ABC? He's a nice guy, right? How soft were those questions? How soft were those? They don't ask me questions like that.  They got fire pouring was going to help people.  She wanted to help people.  She had causes that were so good.  She wanted to help people, and she ended up going home, dark, dark.  Her life became hell.  They ruined people.  They destroyed people, good people.  People that ended up paying far more money in legal fees than they made.  Than they made.  They destroyed great people.  They're vicious, horrible, and the media was behind every single step.  They destroyed so many lives.  They destroyed so many lives, and they're continuing to fastest economic recovery by far of any Western nation by far.  Our bold and early action saved millions of lives and our decisive economic response saved tens of millions of jobs, including 1. 9 million jobs in the state of Ohio.  You know that? He knows it.  He's got one of them.  He's got one of them.  Through operation warp speed, we're developing these great vaccines.  And that's going to be… Literally, these will be done in record time.  Like nobody's ever done it before.  On November 3rd, Ohio will decide whether They didn't think of coming, but they see this, they talk and they talk to their friends and they all come in.  They want to come to America.  You're just bringing people in and we don't want to do that.  We want people to come to our country, but they have to come in through merit and they have to come in legally, very simple.  We will appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda.  We will ensure equal justice for the citizens of every race, color, terminate all protections we have enacted against asylum fraud.  They want to do things that nobody thought was even possible to contemplate.  Now, this is all simple and I really respect because so far I've only seen about four or five people go down.  Because it is hot in here.  But I will tell you this… It's 120.  You know what I said before? Think of yourself at a great spa, great sauna, where it's 120 degrees and we have to pay a lot of money to be there.  You have to pay a in the motorcade, I actually have to report it, but I'm in the motorcade, and they said I had a… One of them said it was a massive heart attack.  Think of it.  Again, it could happen someday, okay? And when it does, I hope things work out.  But they knew I'm in the motorcade and yet they reported it anyway because they fake news.  Now for the same visit, that was the stupidest thing.  From now on, when I go for a physical or something or go to the hospital, announce it because this leak it. " That's a lot of corruption back there, folks.  No, but think, seriously, so they want me… So these are split-second decisions.  You have to make a decision.  So they don't want me to make that decision.  They want me to call up, maybe go over there, let me go over to Congress, or come on over to the White House, let's talk about it.  When can you make it? Well, I won't be able to make it today, sir, so how about say in a couple of days? Oh, good, come on right areas.  In all the right areas.  That was a tough one.  And the Army Corps of Engineers is building their hearts out.  They're great.  Great people.  We believe in keeping terrorists and criminals and drug dealers the hell out of our country.  And thanks to our tireless efforts on the Southern Border, tough place, illegal crossings have dropped 60% since May, and we are faster than ever securing the Southern Border.  And soon it will be, when the wall is completed, secure like it's never been before.  And I want He left 142 judges for the Republicans.  He was a great president, right? If you are of that side of the plate of that ideology, and you had a president that left you 142 federal judgeships, I don't think you'd rate him as doing a good job.  Hey, look at what happened in Iraq, look at what happened with ISIS, look at what happened with our military, look at what happened with our vets.  Our vets are better taken care of now than they've ever been in the history of our country, but never forget they are staff said that when Biden managed swine flu in 2009, they quote, "Did every possible thing wrong. " This is the guy that worked for him in charge of the swine flu.  And 60 million Americans got H1N1 in a period of time.  And it's just purely a … He said it was just … we were lucky.  He said, "It's just lucky that there weren't great mass casualties. " Different kinds of a disease, a little bit.  And what he said is amazing.  He said we did nothing right.  This is the man the outside in Colorado.  It was incredible.  It was.  You could have filled that arena up four times and it was a big arena, and it's something.  So I hated to do it to you at 12 o'clock but I said, let's go.  I want to get back.  We got to deal with China.  We got to deal with Russia.  We got to deal with North Korea, South Korea.  We got to deal with the rest of the world.  Get my people back.  We got to get the hell donors.  Well, we have big donors, but we have small donors are sending us the money for the election.  Pretty amazing.  That's not supposed to happen to a Republican, but it's happening to this Republican and it's happening to you.  Every vow that politicians made was broken, every hope was dashed, and every promise turned into a total betrayal of New Hampshire and of our country.  But in this administration, we have something those sell-out politicians could only dream of.  It's called strength and commitment.  We don't play games.  We don't play thought would never make it, the song that he liked the least, but he said that's the one that was the most successful that the people like you never know.  So I said, "Drain the swamp. " And the people went crazy.  I said, "Woah. " I said, "Let's try that again. " And the next time I did it again and again and again.  I only didn't know how disgusting and dirty the swamp is and a lot of the media is a big part of the swamp.  So my administration is protecting your social they came in with … Oh, they brought them all.  They had President Obama, they had Michelle Obama, they had Oprah Winfrey.  They came in, and all he had was Donald Trump, and we won.  We won, fairly easily.  But Stacey Abrams wants to give illegal aliens the right to vote.  Do you believe this? I mean, some of these people, they want to give them education.  They want to give them this.  They want to give them free healthcare.  They want to give these people, that come into our country illegally  Then we got lightweights that I fired, and they write books about me, that I'm a bad guy, "Oh, he's a terrible guy.  He treats our allies so badly. " No.  Our allies treat us badly.  Our allies in many ways treat us worse than our enemies.  I must be honest with you.  They take advantage of us.  Everyone takes advantage of your country, and we don't put up with it.  And you know what the funny thing? We get along better now, because they respect us again.  Before, they thought we've done so much in the first three years, will soon be four years.  All of a sudden the time will be up.  But it's like when you plant a tree, it needs time to grab on.  It needs time to let it… It's got to grab.  That's what we need.  We need time.  And we have other things we're going to do that are incredible.  We still have tremendous regulation cutting that we can do.  We've cut more regulations than any president in the history of our country.  We did and we're doing a lot better.  The difference is, the last election I was a successful businessman running for president, I said I was going to do things.  And by the way, really successful.  I'm going to show you something someday soon, I'm going to show you something.  They say he was really successful, he wasn't successful, he's really smart, or he's really stupid but he's trying to take over the world.  They have so many messages, he's really stupid, then next week, Donald Trump has a sinister plot to take over the world, he is no longer handling? Guess what? You would be sold down the tubes so fast, and we're so close.  China wants to make a deal so badly.  I think they'd love to see another president.  They would like to see another president more than crooked Hillary would, okay.  Can you imagine if they ever took over negotiations of this deal, which is going to be one of the greatest deals ever made.  Has to be, because we started down here and they were up there.  Has to be.  Can you imagine if they can ever come back from what will happen, including our Supreme Court.  We're joined tonight by our terrific Republican congressional nominee, who has my complete and total endorsement.  Jim, where you Jim? Jim Marchant, Jim Marchant, where are you? A lot of people out there, Jim, it's not easy.  Are you doing well? I just looked at a very solid poll.  Jim Marchant is a great guy and hopefully he's going to win and you're going to carry them over and you need it, you need it.  Thank you, Jim.  And also to a him is a burning city.  I never saw anything like it.  He's saying, "There are really no protests here.  This is very friendly. " We call this a friendly protester because you're not supposed to have political rallies.  You're not supposed to have anything.  The only thing you can have is thousands of people running down a street burning stores, looting, doing what … That's okay, because that's protesting, but we'll call this a friendly protest, but your children will be robbed of their future and the damage will endure for generations to come- … accountability, which they said could not be done.  And we passed the spectacular right to try.  So if you're in trouble, and I hope nobody in this massive arena's in trouble, but if you're in trouble, you can go and get whatever the new drug or whatever where we have the best doctors, best hospital, best labs.  You get it.  And the luck we are having, we are saving so many lives.  It's incredible what's happening.  People would go to Europe.  They'd go to Asia.  If they had no money, they'd go guess what? We didn't.  We won Michigan, first time in decades.  And you know what we've done? Many, many car plants are now opening up.  A great gentleman, who's just retiring, Prime Minister Abe, of Japan.  I said, "Shinzo, please do me a favor.  We need more car companies.  You're selling cars into our country, please.  We want to build here, not in Japan, please. " He said, "But we cannot do that.  This is a free enterprise system. " I said, "I know, Shinzo, please.  I need some car companies. it? You know, I never got credit.  My father used to teach me, if you can do it for less and win, that's good.  He wasn't talking politics.  The last thing… He's looking down.  He's definitely looking down, not looking up.  He was great.  He was tough, but he was great.  But my father would say, "If you could do it for less and win, that's a good thing, not a bad thing.  If you can build a building for less money than the guy across the street, and if it's a was very angry, obviously, if she did the hammer work.  But if anyone else said this, there's a protection, there's a dual level of justice, but we're getting down to the bottom of it because it's not fair to us.  Not fair to us.  33,000 emails.  She deleted them on the basis that it was all about her daughter's wedding, Chelsea, and also yoga classes.  33,000 emails on yoga and a wedding.  I don't think so.  And Comey said, "Oh, that's okay.  That sounds like a good reason. " That's Comey.  I won't say it, Susan.  I won't say it, Susan.  But Thom Tillis is with us.  I can tell you that.  Great.  We have great Republican senators.  We have great people and we have a great country.  That's really, we have a great country.  And we're going to keep it that way.  So we win an election and those are the consequences.  It's called fill that seat and that's what we're doing.  The Supreme Court was a very central issue in both the 2016 presidential election and then the years has done anywhere close to what we not being what we, not me, what we've all done.  It's true.  The unemployment rate among African Americans is the lowest in the history of our country.  Unemployment among Hispanic Americans, where we're doing really well, you know why? Because they want a strong border.  They want it because they understand the border better than anybody.  They want that strong border.  They want that wall that's being built right now.  They want that wall, and they really do.  They understand the border better than Gavin Newsom.  So, Gavin Newsom, you have the water pouring down from up north, millions and millions of gallons.  You know what they do with it? They divert it into the Pacific Ocean, because they have … We must be in Wisconsin.  No.  Millions of gallons coming down from the north.  They have this massive valve.  You're talking about a valve, this is a serious valve, and they turn it and it … Because they have a tiny, tiny little fish that's doing very poorly with or without the water.  So in the vote for it that they could have never gotten.  President Obama tried, he couldn't get it done.  President Bush couldn't get it.  They couldn't get it done.  That's okay.  They couldn't get it done.  I got it done.  I got it done.  And after I got it done, and I mean solely got it done, and after I got it done they had news conferences.  They're thanking people that I never even heard of.  The only one they didn't think was President Trump.  And I got it done, but go the opposite.  So we kill him.  And that was precision.  Some people thought it went much too fast.  Went too fast.  So we kill him and they say, "What a horrible …" If we didn't kill him, they'd say, "What a horrible thing. " Right? And by the way, they think they caught me.  They never catch us.  Because Mexico's paying for the wall.  You know that.  You'll see that.  It's all worked out.  Mexico's paying.  It's driving them crazy.  Now they say, "Okay, he's building I can't believe, oh they're giving him hell tonight.  They're giving him hell.  What did you say that for? Boy oh boy.  Yeah, hiding.  ‘Joe Hiden. ' Look, this doesn't sound nice.  I'll say it, and they'll criticize for it, you watch.  But I have the distinct pleasure of running against the worst presidential candidate in the history of presidential politics.  I really believe that.  I do.  Can you imagine if I lost to him? I'd have to say I lost to the worst candidate ever put up.  Don't do Okay, don't worry about it.  He says, "No, I don't care about that one. " Well, that's good.  You look like a nice guy too.  He's tough.  You'd love to be his kid, wouldn't you? But I also took the strongest ever action to confront China's massive theft of American jobs.  Our strategy worked.  Last month, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and boost American exports.  China will invest $250 billion a year into the United States and buy our products and I want to thank Mexico because you know what's happening, right? Thousands and thousands at this moment, 27,000 soldiers from Mexico, protecting our Southern border.  I want to thank the President.  Democrats stand for crime, corruption and chaos.  Republicans stand for law, order and justice, and say what you want, but those are the facts.  We are removing these illegal criminals and gang members.  We are literally taking them by so many, thousands and thousands, and we're bringing him back.  Thanks to our tireless efforts of border patrol to secure our border, we have missed your time.  It got taken from you four years ago, Bernie.  Not doing too well.  He's not doing too well, but that's okay.  I got to hand it to him he's up there ranting and raving and going like a lunatic.  I said to our first lady the other day, I was watching Bernie and he's screaming, his hair's all crazy, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that, no more college loans, no more cost for anything.  Nothing, you're not going to pay for anything.  He's desperate now, he's it for political reasons because there'll be less activity.  You'd be doing even better if you had a governor that knew what the hell she was doing.  You got to open it up the state.  And also, you have to have a governor because right now Michigan's lagging.  Great football, great coach, great team.  We want a governor, John James, that's going to let Michigan play Big Ten football this year.  You've been seeing a lot of the other schools want to open Big Ten at my suggestion.  How about Sleepy Joe? He tape like nobody has ever cut regulations before.  We've ended the war on American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump, and eliminating our reliance on hostile foreign suppliers.  For the first time, America is now energy independent.  Such beautiful words.  Energy independent.  We fought wars.  We did everything we could.  We used to take the straits and everybody else benefited.  We'd them clear so that other countries could take oil from the Middle East with… That nobody paid us.  Now they're starting to pay us a lot of and they cut them to pieces, killed them, they're animals.  We invested $2. 5 trillion in the US military and launched the first new branch of the US armed forces in 75 years, space force.  Not since the air force.  Think of it, the air force was last.  If I did just that, space force big deal, by the way, it's going to end up being one of the most important things you've ever imagined.  But if I just did that, a sixth branch of the US military, that would be a big deal.  of one in three Pennsylvania manufacturing jobs.  Your politicians always pledged to fix it.  They'd talk about it for years and years and decades, but they never were able to do it.  They came and they went to Washington and they did nothing.  But unlike those politicians, I keep my promises.  And I love Pennsylvania.  I went to school in Pennsylvania, you know that right? I know it well.  And I'm thrilled to report that we are on the verge of ending the NAFTA catastrophe once and for all.  Congress will soon in 47 years.  That's true.  That's true.  I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal.  So good for Israel.  So good that we did that.  They paid $150 billion, 1. 8 billion in cash.  I think Dana White could have made a slightly better deal than that.  You know what we got for it? Nothing.  We got nothing.  We killed the founder and leader of ISIS.  al-Baghdadi we eliminated the number one terrorist in the world.  And we're talking over a 50 year period.  Number guy goes, "No, no.  We're going to fight.  We're going to fight. " And they will.  "No, no, no.  You know he's going to win. " Then he goes, "You know he's going to win.  And you know he's never leaving, don't you? He's never leaving. " At first I thought he was kidding.  He's a whack job.  He is totally serious.  He honestly believes that.  I don't know, should we give it a shot? Maybe we'll give it a shot.  I'm only kidding.  I'm only kidding.  Media, election, not between Scranton or wherever it is.  It's really between Scranton and China, you know that, Scranton and China.  I'm with America.  Biden is with China.  If Biden wins, China wins.  If we win, America wins, North Carolina wins, Pennsylvania wins, and the American workers win in every single state.  To save our auto industry, I withdrew from this horrible, horrible deal, Trans-Pacific Partnership.  Earlier this year, I kept my promise to North Carolina when I ended the NAFTA nightmare.  You got hit so hard.  All those empty buildings all Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans.  And just in finishing, I have to say that over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world.  And we will end our reliance on China once and for all.  We'll make our medical supplies right here in the United States.  We will enact fair trade deals that create American jobs and grow American wages.  We are going to bring our companies back home where they should be.  I've been doing like it.  Money is being poured into these communities that would have never been there.  What's happening is incredible.  Opportunity Zones.  Remember it.  For decades, politicians ran for office, promising to protect American farmers and workers.  You've heard it all your lives, right? But then, they went to Washington.  They looked at those beautiful marble columns, and that gorgeous ceiling painted, and all that gold, the way they used to build the buildings, they don't build them that way anymore.  We could, but they just don't know how.  By the way, will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools.  And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.  And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, "In God We Trust. " For years, you had a president who apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for "Would you sign for this plane? Air Force One?" I said, "How old is the original or the one we have now?" "Sir, it's 31, 32 years. " I'd see people coming in from foreign lands that can't compete with us, rich countries but they can't compete with the … They have a brand new beautiful 747-800, and I say, "Wait a minute.  That country has new and we have a 31-year, so somebody had to do …".  This was the Boeing before that and they were riding high, like I was before this thing came in, but to 2016?" I just gave that up.  This is the most important election.  You know why? Two reasons.  Number one, that's over with, the hell with it.  The hell with it.  But the truth is it's got a seat in, and we have a lot of new things including additional, substantial, middle income tax cuts and other tax cuts, and tremendous regulation cuts.  And we're finishing up with our military.  We're building Space Force.  The wall is going incredibly.  You remember the wall? They don't talk about the wall anymore, the  They get caught.  "I'm bringing this home to my family.  How dare you stop me?" No, no, no.  They use it as ammunition.  It's terrible shame.  But he went down and he didn't like it.  He was hit.  "Police brutality. " You remember that? They walked in, and they've got the tear gas.  They've got everything you can possibly have.  Pepper spray.  They don't want you to use tear gas anymore.  In some places like I think in Milwaukee, they said no tear gas, no pepper spray.   I passed criminal justice reform to give former prisoners a second chance at life.  Was never going to happen.  We got it done.  This could not have been done by anyone but the Republican party and ourselves.  You know the Democrats have tried for years.  They couldn't get it done.  We got it done.  To uphold the rule of law.  We are confirmed and this is something they say.  Most important thing you can do, judges.  I say most important thing is defense.  Second is judges.  A be studied carefully.  We should look at it, look at it closely.  I don't want to talk about until about two months before the election.  And then I will tell you how totally insane it is. " How about this crazy Senator? How about this crazy, crazy Senator from Hawaii? They said, "I'm totally in favor," not the smartest.  She said, "I'm totally in favor of the Green New Deal. " Well, that would mean there's no more airplanes.  "Oh!" They started screaming at her in Hawaii, they said, "How the hell are we going correct statement? And I'm also proud to endorse your next Republican Senator from Minnesota, a man that I've known, a man that is tough and smart, a man that's running against somebody that's never done a damn thing in the Senate, Mr.  Jason Lewis.  And Jason did a great job in Congress.  Congressman Lewis, thank you very much, and thank you for putting up with all of this stuff because I'll tell you, it's going to be nasty.  It's going to be nasty.  They're going to make up stories about you.  They're going to thing that nobody even knows about and it's all signed and it goes into effect on January 1st.  You better make sure I win.  Can you imagine? This is going to be the biggest thing and nobody understands what it is.  You'll figure it out.  Price transparency.  Did they fight me on that one.  January 1st.  And further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs at a level like you've never seen before.  I've already signed it.  Favored Nations.  The drug companies are not happy, I will of hardworking North Carolina patriots, and thank you for your support.  Thank you for that very big victory we had three years ago.  Time is flying.  You getting ready? Let's do it again.  Right? Let's do it again.  I just heard that the United States House of Representative, has overwhelmingly voted to kill the most ridiculous project I've ever been involved in, the resolution.  How stupid is that? Own impeachment.  I want to thank those Democrats because many of them voted for us.  The vote was a totally lopsided 332 to 95 great state, and we love the people of North Carolina.  Congressman Mark Meadows.  Along with some of your local great politicians, and a person that's done a really spectacular job.  You know, in Michigan, a woman, she just kept going, she just kept going.  Reminded me, by the way, of your governor, from the standpoint she never quit.  Now, Republicans hadn't won Michigan in many, many years.  She called, "Could you come again? Could you do it again? Could you come make another speech, please?" I said, "All right, this is the last one. the country.  Not the best.  He's been incredible.  Matt is strong on crime and tough on illegal immigration.  Thank you.  He's pro-worker, pro-life and 100% Pro-Second Amendment.  By the way, you're going to lose your Second Amendment if you vote in Democrats.  You think I'm kidding? I see what they're saying.  I watch what they're doing.  They're calling me all the time.  You will lose your Second Amendment as soon … I'm telling you.  As sure as you're standing here, is anybody sitting? Nobody ever sits.  You can see.  That guy would.  Maybe him, maybe her, right? Maybe her.  But it's a rough job and they get so little praise for the job that they do.  So dangerous.  These are many killers in those gangs, and we're taking them out of our country by the thousands, MS13.  And as you know, Democrats even want to give free healthcare to illegal immigrants.  As long as I'm your president I will never, ever let Democrats take away your healthcare, and give it away free to people that have entered our country illegally.  Canada is one of the toughest negotiators and they treated your state and this country very unfairly until I came along, very, very unfairly.  Did you know that? 287.  But I saw some farmers and this was like the straw that broke the camel's back.  They had something called specialty milk.  Does anybody know what that is? Right, you know.  A lot of people … it's a small little grouping of milks, specialty milk.  But this was the final straw.  And I met some people and Canada finally did it to them like took an ad saying I'm the one, I didn't want it.  I wanted it closed.  So then I said, "Well, no, I don't.  I want it open.  Let me call up the commissioner. " We called up the commissioner and he was great.  He said, "You really think so?" And bottom line, we worked very hard, lots of calls to lots of different states, lots of people.  We dealt with the players, the parents of the players, who are really the boss, that's okay, I won't say that.  But these are players that  Very good.  That's very good.  I have to thank you, that one.  That's very good.  No, we did win.  Look, we are winning.  We're winning big.  We have fake polls out there.  These guys do fake polls.  They are fake polls.  I had a poll.  It's just like it was in 2016.  I'd hear these polls.  I'd hear women didn't like me, and I did great with women.  I hear everyone didn't like me.  Nobody liked me.  Nobody liked me.  And then  I thought you should put me in an office based on a much lower number.  At 200, you have no choice.  Yesterday, Biden was in Michigan.  He said, "I better get out of the basement. " This guy is starting to do very well lying about his lifetime of cold hearted globalist betrayals.  Biden championed NAFTA, perhaps the worst trade deal in the history of our country.  He continued to embrace and promote NAFTA for decades.  I told you, he just said it was not as good as the deal I made.  to have an authorized signature on a ballot? No.  They're trying to rig an election, and we can't let that happen.  I hope you're all going to be poll-watchers, I hope you are, because with you people watching the polls, it's going to be pretty hard to cheat.  I'll tell you, I wouldn't want to be a cheater.  They'll figure a way.  No, they are.  It's a very dangerous thing.  It's a very dangerous thing, and I totally mean it.  And I've been at it.  And you see people.  And be nice.  You know why? Not because of the electric.  It'll be nice because we want to save people.  That's why it'll be nice.  That's the important thing.  Together, we will defeat the virus.  The job we're doing is, the job that all of the people working on it, our generals, our admirals, the distribution, we bought billions and billions of dollars of things, and now we make gowns and we make masks and we make shields and we make ventilators.  Very tough.  The ventilator's very complicated, very big, very expensive.  targeted by China.  And I said, "How much were the farmers," Iowa, Nebraska, you, all of them? You were targeted.  I said, "How much?" Sonny Perdue, I said, "How much, Secretary?" 12 billion, then 16 billion, you were targeted.  I took it out of the tariffs we charge.  We never took 25 cents in from China, now we're getting billions and billions and billions of dollars.  Sleepy Joe, that never gave, never took anything, or Trump, misjudging him? So Mexico, we're driving them a little crazy.  They don't like Trump too much.  But "Darling, you're the most brilliant person in history.  For years, you've been losing your ass with 401ks.  Now you're making a fortune. " Right? Right? Now you're making a fortune.  I have people coming up to me all the time.  I had one gentlemen come up, "Sir.  Thank you, sir.  You've made me look so smart.  My wife never respected me for anything, not anything.  But now she thinks I'm a great investor.  Thank you. " 401k.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans  So we'll defeat the virus and next year will be truly, I think, from an economic standpoint and from other standpoints, maybe the best year of all.  Hard to believe we're going so fast, the numbers have been incredible.  We've had employment numbers, the best ever.  We've had retail sales numbers the best ever.  You see them all, they come out every day.  And our stock market is for the most part, at a new high.  And if people have 401ks, if you want to have your 401k go down like to depression "you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan. " 28 times, he lied, so we should impeach him.  We're going to impeach him.  We'll do a belated impeachment.  28 times, "you can keep your doctor," right? Remember, you could keep your doctor.  Unfortunately, when they found out you can't keep your doctor, he said, "I was just kidding. " Now, we should impeach him.  We'll do a belated impeachment.  Fake news, you have it.  See, you have to be very careful when you say impeachment because you know what they do?  Hard to believe isn't that.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion and socialism.  The Republican party is the party of freedom.  We are the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream and I'm fighting for you each and every day.  So importantly we have confirmed more than 140 federal judges.  Within 90 days it will be 179 federal judges.  Thank you very much President Obama.  Thank you very much.  I don't know what happened to them, but go get it, you wouldn't even believe it.  It's too crazy to even talk about, but we're never going to give them a chance to do it.  We're never giving them a chance.  We're going to win, we're going to win big.  This is a very important state, and by the way … By the way, when they send out their millions and millions of unsolicited ballots, when you get a ballot, say, "Well I wanted to go and vote, darling.  I wanted to go and vote.  Why are they sending me those ballots?" white house.  I said, "What are you doing here?" He said, I'm working to make sure you get elected. " I said, "You've got to be kidding.  You don't like me.  I don't like you.  What the hell is this all about?" He said, "That's right.  We've had our differences.  I haven't liked you, but to be honest with you, Mr.  President, I have no choice. " I said, "You're right.  You're right. " First thing I've ever heard him say that I agreed with, he's got no choice.  He got You saw we ended the Iran disaster.  How about that? We paid them a $150 billion.  $1. 8 billion in cash.  Cash, cash, cash.  We got nothing.  And they also want to make a deal.  China wants to make a deal, and I will tell you Iran wants to make a deal because the sanctions are not good for them.  They are not happy.  So we'll see how it all turns out.  But it's in good hands.  It's in good hands.  The United States right now has the hottest one of our executives, he said, "We never built the cages.  Those cages were built in 2014 by Obama. " We never the cages, they were built by Obama and the fake news is constantly saying that I built cages for children.  I didn't build them.  They were built in 2014.  There was a headline in Time magazine about the cage and somebody called in that built it.  They said, "He didn't build it, we built that for the Obama administration. " But they don't stop, they keep calling it, they say I built the And for years you watched as your politicians … They really, I mean, they went out, "I'd like to apologize for the behavior of the United States. " No, no.  We don't know we don't apologize anymore.  We don't apologize.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of New Hampshire.  Thank you.  At stake in our present battle is to survival actually of our nation.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and his way back in.  When somebody treats you that way, even stay neutral, don't go back in.  He wants to give them a lot of money to try and buy their friendship.  And one thing you learned about politics, I spent a fraction of the money that crooked Hillary spent.  They raised $2 billion.  I spent my own money, but I spent a fraction of the money… I spent my own money, but I spent a fraction of the money, like 35%, 30%, and we won.  Nobody ever says that.  It's not about socialism, and blatant corruption.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and it's the party of the great Abraham Lincoln.  We forgot that.  Abraham Lincoln.  The incredible rebuilding of our military includes over $100 billion investments all across the state of Kentucky.  I withdrew our nation from the horrible one sided Iran nuclear deal.  It's not the same country.  When I came in that country, there were in 18 different sites of confliction, they called it.  And now they're a little different, a do to people is as disgrace but they stick together left their party and joined our party.  But we've done things nobody's ever done before.  But the Democrats are taking their cues from socialist Bernie Sanders and that group.  Omar, AOC, Talib.  This is a jihadist woman, Talib.  Talib.  Boy, what a group but they're the leaders of the party.  They're really my opinion dealers.  That's what happened.  That's how they got into this impeachment on this.  The leaders of the party are… there's AOC, Talib, and Omar.  And I was surprised people, most people, they appreciate what I did.  Because you think it was easy doing that? It was actually, I thought it would be devastating.  I got one day of bad press, after that, everybody forgot about it.  It wasn't that bad.  But I did the right thing for our country and we want to have our great plants working.  We want to have our great plants fired up.  They said manufacturing jobs are dead, right? Sleepy Joe said, "I'm going to bring back manufacturing. " Really? Well, Obama said, you'd News, it's terrible.  The good news is people don't watch it like they used to, because they don't believe in it.  They don't believe in it.  And as Sean Hannity would say, MSDNC, you know what MSDNC is, right, so bad.  CNN, total fake stuff.  Oops, their camera just went off.  Look! The camera just went off! CNN! Their camera just went off.  That always happens whenever I say CNN, their camera goes off.  But Americans, across the political spectrum, were disgusted by the Washington Democrats, the partisan hoaxes, the witch hunts, With your help, your devotion, your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of Minnesota, I will tell you this with great certainty, the best is yet to come.  Thank you very much.  And just in concluding, together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will show in history. " He said, "You can take The Apprentice, and you can take Survivor, and you can take every other reality show ever made, multiply it times 10,000, and you still don't have what we have.  And even the CAS. " He did say this.  You got the perfect president.  You got the perfect first lady.  How about the first lady? You got the perfect kids.  The kids, though.  Those beautiful kids.  My beautiful kids.  They had such a great life, before I did this.  Sorry, kids.  Sorry. be there tomorrow. " I said, "Nope, you got to be there right now.  Get them over there now. " There are thousands of soldiers.  They were soldiers.  You take a look at that crowd.  That was not protesters.  They were soldiers, and they were surrounding our embassy in Baghdad.  And all of a sudden they see these beautiful, very expensive, I will tell you, brand new Apache helicopters roaming over the top.  And then they see our great military.  You saw them in the plane, right? Some of them were getting chronic trade abuses, including tariffs on $370 billion worth of Chinese made goods, bringing billions and billions of dollars into our treasury.  I gave some of that money, because they were targeted, to our farmers, and our farmers did just fine.  Now, the deal is done, and the other deals are done, and the farmers are doing very well.  We love our farmers, and they never complain.  They never complain.  You know, when they'd go, the fake news back there, they'd go and they'd talk- And when they come, the fake news back, they go said a week ago.  I said, "Where did that come from in the middle of the summer? Nobody's even asking?" We will never kneel to our national anthem or our great American flag.  We will stand proud and we will stand tall.  I thought we won that battle with the NFL.  The stadiums were emptying out.  Did you see those stadiums? It took them a long time to get you back.  A lot of people didn't like that.  A lot of people that you wouldn't even think would care that much.  I've you want after another.  And that's changing also, you see what's happening, and when these rich countries think we're going to pay for their military every year, billions and billions and billions, and they're rich, and they take our business and we're supposed to, on top of everything else, I could tell you stories, but I'm going to save them for the campaign.  Because to be honest, this is a little earlier than the campaign.  Wait until this campaign starts, you know, like I was telling Brad and I was telling a few of the folks, one what's happening.  This is unbelievable. " You know, there have never been rallies like that.  Sleepy Joe Biden the other day had 68 people.  And now they have a new member of the crew, mini Mike.  Mini Mike.  No boxes, we call him no boxes.  And I hear he's getting pounded tonight.  You know, he's in a debate.  I hear they're pounding him.  He spent $500 million so far, and I think he has 15 points.  It just came out.  Hey fake news, how many points does he have I did something, based on my instinct because instinct sometimes works better than anything else.  Based on my instinct, I said, " You can't close this plant. " I went through that plant.  I spent two, three hours talking to people who worked there.  I looked at some of the hydraulic and I'm, I love all in the world, tractors, all of that stuff.  I know a lot about it.  And I looked at the carvings.  I looked at the metal.  I looked at how perfect everything was that turns around.  How your healthcare to illegal immigrants, especially when we say, "Come in.  Come in, we'll give you healthcare. " It's one thing they come in and it's a rough situation because we all have hearts but when people are saying, like in California this wacky governor he says, "Come in, we're going to give you healthcare.  We're going to give you free education.  We're going to give you everything.  We're going to give you a beautiful Rolls-Royce. " See to show you how fake they are one of the newscasters said, "Donald Trump said that the governor are saving your healthcare while Socialist Democrats are trying to take away your healthcare.  Sleepy Joe has no idea what he's even … He doesn't even know what he's talking about.  He's so lost.  Honestly, that poor guys is so lost.  They talk healthcare, she said, "It's over for him. " It was over for him, actually if you knew him, a long time ago.  Now it's really over.  We are making healthcare better and cheaper.  We got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing, which essentially killed Obamacare.  We star. " It was John James.  That was in the Republican primary.  After learning about him with his incredible career and helicopter, and he's a great, and actually a great flyer I heard the other day, a great one, a really good one as opposed to those that aren't so good, but his incredible background and education at West Point and all of the things he did.  I said, "This guy" and I endorsed him and he went like a rocket ship.  Frankly, if he had a little more support, he would have won the last spent the last three years trying to overturn the last election.  Why am I not worried? I should worried.  Remember Nixon, it was like a dark period, right? It's a very dark period.  It was like oh, you think about it.  Right? With Clinton it was not good.  They say that with Johnson, it was a long time ago, none of us remember, but they say it was a very dark period.  This is a happy period for us.  It's a happy period.  It's a happy period because we call this impeachment elected, Biden would destroy social security and destroy protections for preexisting conditions, people with preexisting conditions, drain your Medicare by giving away your healthcare to illegal immigrants.  They're all going to come in.  If you have that, the problem is we're going to give you healthcare, they're going to all pour into the United States and our country can't afford it.  We want to be nice, we all have hearts, country can't afford it.  They would get people that never even thought of coming if they see that.  Can't do it.  They would end Kellyanne.  I just want to thank Republicans because what they've been doing is incredible.  Republican leadership in this country we're winning, winning, winning like never before.  We're winning again and we've got a party that's a very different part, a much stronger party, a much more inclusive party.  We have a party that we love.  We have a party that has the votes.  We have a party like they've never had before.  The Republican party respected again.  I have to say this, America is winning again and America is thriving again like the best is yet to come.  Together, we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you, Kentucky.  Thank you.  Go out and vote. Well thank you very much.  And I'm thrilled to be back in Wisconsin where we had a very big night a few years ago.  You remember that very big night? Remember that? They said, "Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin. " center.  Thank you, Martha.  And she's running against a gentlemen who is, when you read what he's done, when you read what he said about the second amendment and about all other things, you're not going to want to vote for.  You're not going to want to have them play with your second amendment.  I'll tell you what.  If I weren't President, I don't believe, Doug, you'd have a second amendment right now.  I don't think you'd have.  The pressure that was put on to get rid of it, or to basically obliterate better.  Does that make sense? You pay much less money and you look much better and on top of that, with the new bulbs, if they break, it's considered a hazardous waste site.  It's all gases inside and you're supposed to bring it back to where you bought it in a sealed container.  Give me a break.  I asked the people, the professionals, "Well, what do people do when it breaks? Because they break all the time.  What do they do?" Nothing, they throw it away.  A lot of people didn't know.  They happen, because you know I was doing six and seven a day that last month, that last beautiful month that I loved, I was doing six.  I left these guys alone.  I didn't want to do interviews, they were a waste of time.  We just did these big beautiful rallies.  And you know, if you start getting a little … you know, I went to Michigan, then I went to Wisconsin, then I went … I'm sitting here saying, "What the hell is going on? These crowds are incredible. " And we had the biggest crowds. and democratic election, the election of 2016.  They're trying.  They're not getting very far.  They want to erase your vote like it never existed.  They want to erase your voice.  And they want to erase your future.  But they will fail, because in America, the people rule again.  Do you remember that, just 19 minutes after I raised my hand and took the oath of office, The Washington Post, a terrible newspaper that doesn't know how to write the truth, published a story, and in this case, they might've gotten it pretty correct, because he believes like we do.  We are truly honored to be here with the newest Republican member of the House of Representatives, your great congressman, Jeff Van Drew.  I have to tell you a few weeks ago Jeff was one of the few brave and principled Democrat lawmakers, in all fairness we've been after him for a longtime, who stood up to the House Democrats and the outrageous abusive power that you see going on right now.  They can't win an election so they're trying to steal an election.  It's not happening folks.  It's A fantastic man, fantastic family.  It was a beautiful day at the White House, so it was good.  My administration is fighting to empower all Americans to reach their dreams and achieve their potential.  We have created six million new jobs since election day.  The fake news would never have allowed us to say that during the campaign, even as a projection.  Unemployment recently reached its lowest rate in over 50 years.  More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps.  Nearly 600,000 Americans came into the labor force last They don't want any death penalty.  Not for the Boston Bomber, not for anybody.  You see the Boston Bomber, they're still trying this guy, what he did to so many lives.  He killed people, ruined so many families, ruined so many lives.  And by the way, they want the Boston Bomber to be able to vote.  You know that.  In three and a half years under my administration, we've secured America's borders, rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military, obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100%, fixed our disastrous trade deals, and brought jobs do.  They understand safety, they understand their job, they don't want people taking it away, they don't want crime.  They understand it better.  That's why we're doing so well, but we're in New Mexico, and I'm telling you, that was electric.  But honestly, all evenings are electric.  We haven't had any bad ones.  We haven't.  They're all electric.  A woman who headed up the great state of Michigan for me, a state that hadn't been won in a long time by a Republican for whatever reason, but it hadn't been won.  sir, I've been doing this all my life.  I love the people. " He built the most beautiful African-American museum.  Phil, he's the greatest, but he built the most beautiful … But he's got confidence.  And he said, "No sir, I'd been doing it.  I don't really want to do that. " In other words, he said, "That's enough. " … Oh, we love our police, right? I love our police.  We love our police.  He'll oppose sanctuary cities, which is just terrible.  They're terrible.  And Tate will always defend your Second an office building, and he's got Jerusalem stone facing the elevators in this high-rise building, Jerusalem stone.  And every time I go in, he goes, "Oh, you got to see Jerusalem stone. " And he paid a fortune for it.  He's so proud of it.  He doesn't talk about anything but his Jerusalem stone.  I said, "David, do me a favor.  You're I Jerusalem.  Right?" "Yes. " "Do they have Jerusalem stone?" "They got so much, we don't know what to do with it. " I said, "Use all Jerusalem stone when you're rebuilding We have tremendous evangelical support.  We work hard with the Christians.  So we're slowly getting out of the Middle East.  We're doing it carefully.  And we're rebuilding our military like we have never rebuilt our military before.  When I came into office, a very prominent general told me, because it looked like we could have a big conflict with someone, said, "Sir, we have no ammunition. " We had old planes.  We had planes that were so old, they didn't fly.  We had people going to the desert, the plane graveyards, airplane graveyards, "They're miles long.  They've got Trump here, Trump hats, Trump pins," right? Tennessee.  Duncan, Congressman Duncan, right? Remember that Mike? That was the first time.  I mean, they said that they'd never seen anything like it.  Tennessee has been incredible by the way.  So Mike and I listened and we said, "I wonder what that's all about. " But it is true.  People that weren't really political people, they're coming in, and the deal here, like the Miss Universe, good old Miss Universe, right? Like this, they came with hats, they came with pins, thousands? That doesn't matter.  Was the attack eminent? I think they're going to start a new investigation.  Was the attack or this horror … and by the way, he was in a country he wasn't allowed to be in.  We don't mention that because he was designated and he wasn't allowed to be there.  And he was there with the head of Hezbollah, and they were talking about, like Hillary Clinton.  They were talking about weddings and working out.  Soleimani and the head of Hezbollah, they were talking about weddings, working out.  Or all over the United States.  Billions, and billions, and billions of dollars, and not government dollars, they're flowing into the opportunities zones into areas where investment was dead.  For decades, politicians ran for office promising to protect American workers, but then they went to Washington and they lined their pockets with special address cash, and they shipped American jobs and dreams to other countries.  They closed up your factories.  They got rid of your jobs.  They didn't have to pay taxes.  Globalist politicians lowered our economic defenses and allowed other nations to rob our information because they wrote in the whistleblower report, they wrote something totally different from what I said, what I said was perfect.  But it screwed up the whole works because most guys would never do that.  They didn't even know probably that we had it transcribed, professionally transcribed, word for word transcribed, so beautiful.  Am I lucky I had it transcribed? Think of that.  Think of that.  So when I said release it… And I don't like doing that because you're releasing it, it's a conversation with a foreign leader, in this case, a very of the greatest financial minds in our country. " And all you did was keep your stock? What's wrong with having these great economic numbers? What's wrong with having to close it down? We saved millions of lives.  You know, a lot of people say we should have gone herd, let's go herd.  Ask them how are they doing in Brazil.  He's a great friend of mine, not good.  You heard about Sweden, right? Too much.  Ask them how they do it in Sweden.  We saved millions of lives, and now it's time to the US Armed Forces in nearly 75 years.  The space force.  And Al, in honor of you, we have passed VA Choice and VA Accountability, Al.  That guy's been bugging me for years.  Al has been bugging me.  What's in that hat, Al? Let me see.  Let me… It's something.  Al, he's been bugging me for years.  Did you ever think we'd get VA Choice, VA Accountability? Did you ever really believe it? Thank you, Al.  I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal, a disaster.  $150 billion failed policies of the past.  They believe it is their right to rule over you and to redistribute your wealth all around the world.  No thank you.  No thank you.  That's why we ended the Paris Accord.  That's why… We've ended a lot.  I don't even want to tell you.  But the sellout of the American nation ended the day I took the oath of office and you understand that.  Past leaders transform far away nations into chaotic war zones.  Then they demanded that America accept unlimited migration from those terror the FBI spying application contained 17 errors and omissions, commonly known as lies and deceit.  When the FBI… And you have great people in the FBI, but not in leadership.  You have not good people in leadership, you haven't had.  When the FBI uncovered evidence showing that we did absolutely nothing wrong, which was right at the beginning, they hid that exonerating, you know that? They hid it.  They hid it so nobody could see it, so they could keep this hoax going on for two years.  They knew right at the beginning that it States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  And just three months ago, we also recognized the Golan Heights as being a part of and protected by Israel.  For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of New Hampshire.  Thank you.  And you must never forget the 2020 election right around the corner.  2020 right around the corner.  And by the old standards, better houses, better schools, made much more money, lived better, had everything going, and then I decide to run for president.  And I'll be honest, while we have to put up with these people, and others are, it's incredible.  But it's the greatest single decision I've ever made, because our country is turning around so rapidly.  I could not be happier, despite what they put us all through.  Could not be happier.  After years of building up other countries, we're finally building up our country.  Isn't that nice? It's time a strong immune system.  Who knows? Take your hat off to the young because they have a hell of an immune system, but it affects virtually nobody.  It's an amazing thing.  By the way, open your schools.  Everybody open your schools.  Sleepy Joe Biden wants to impose a $4 trillion tax site, ban American energy, destroy the suburbs, give free healthcare to illegal aliens.  How about that one? You know the bad part about that? We all have heart.  We want to take care of people.  Probably that is everybody's going to sucker.  It's true.  They wouldn't cover it.  The fake news would not cover the equivalent of the Titanic.  But you know what they're going to do before the election? They're going to say, "We want to just say something.  We're going to endorse the president. " You know why? Because they'll be out of business.  Can you imagine if they had to cover mini Mike? Who I don't think, I think he's gone, but you know what? He'll spend another 500 million.  Don't forget I spent 70 and I won, of my money. We have eliminated a record number of job-destroying regulations.  I brought back the old light bulb.  Better light for much less money, if you want it, right? Little things.  Somebody said, oh sir, don't mention the light bulb.  It's hard to make an elegant speech.  I'm saying I brought back the light bulb.  So the new light bulb costs you five times as much, and it makes you look orange.  And I was more interested in the orange than I was in the cost.  But you know what, if you want, you have a new drug.  The thing was obsolete by the time it got approved.  We've passed a really spectacular thing that they've been trying to get for 40 some odd years.  Right to try.  So you don't have to now go if you get, hopefully nobody in this room has those kind of problems.  Right to try.  And so now you go and you sign a waiver and you get everything.  It's great.  If you're terminally ill.  If you're very, very sick, you're not going to make it.  And you Their stance on Israel, it's like a whole different world.  It's like from 10 years ago, it's like a different world and we want to keep our world the way it was and the way it's going to be.  We've got the greatest country on earth and we're going to keep it that way.  We don't need socialist and we don't need communist telling us how to run our country.  I do this every night and a lot of times it's a waste.  I did it last night.  We were … Did you see was a disaster because nobody's allowed.  He was the only boat.  He had this massive, beautiful lake.  You know the lake I'm talking about.  It's a big lake.  They've got to be able to do their job.  You've got to let them do their job.  Got to be able to do your job, right? They let you do your job, you'd see.  You'd see Pennsylvania, not some big, bad crime numbers in your state.  You let them do your job.  Any state, New York's finest.  By the way, I but many of those people that voted for us this afternoon in somewhat of a sneak attack, a real sneak attack, many of those people that voted for us were Democrats, and I want to thank them, because they did the right thing for our country.  Republicans know that America is the greatest force for peace and justice in the history of our world.  But these left-wing ideologues see our nation as a force of evil.  The way they speak, so badly of our country.  They want to demolish our constitution, weaken our military, eliminate the to you, the American people.  With your help and your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America will soon be thriving like never before.  Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country, and together we will work very hard.  The people of Pennsylvania, the great, great people of Pennsylvania, where I went great thing.  Did anybody hear Herschel Walker that night? It was … well.  You talk about a good football player.  He was some player.  What a great guy.  But all of them, everybody.  The first lady did great, Ivanka did great.  They all did, they did great.  We had some … and some incredible stories, some very sad stories when you look and see what happened.  But Biden's plan is to appease the domestic terrorists.  My plan is to arrest the domestic terrorists.  Joe Biden is a weak person. or mass murderers.  Biden says he wants to protect black lives, but his radical platform will cut short the lives of thousands of African American citizens.  The Democrat party's war on cops has already led to surging homicides in Democrat controlled cities.  Yet Biden supports imposing these failed policies nationwide.  They ask him, "What about nationwide? What about the fact that you just had your Democrat national convention?" Where, by the way, we had far many more viewers, millions and millions of more viewers.  We had millions of more.  I thought it was a one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  And together, with the incredible people of North Carolina, we will make America wealthy again, we will America strong again, we will make America proud again.  We will America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you very much.  Get out and vote, vote, vote, vote. Thank you everybody.  Thank you and Vice President Mike Pence, thank you very much.  Incredible.  And, hello to Fayetteville.  Hello, Fayetteville.  It's great to be here in North Carolina's ninth congressional district facilities in Biloxi and Gulfport and Jackson and Starkville.  And Roger has been fantastic.  And Cindy Hyde-Smith has been fantastic.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  To protect America's security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal.  It's not the same country anymore.  Nothing's easy, but it's not the same.  And I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  For years you watch as your politicians apologize for America.  Now you have a President who is standing up for America, I've ever seen them.  The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes, and extremism.  The Democrats' outrageous conduct has created an angry majority that will vote many do-nothing Democrats out of office in 2020.  Make no mistake.  They are coming after the Republican party and me because I'm fighting for you.  They don't like it.  This is different.  They've never had anything like this.  Well, they've never had an election like 2016 either, have they? They never have.  They've never quite figured it out.  You're the man.  we haven't lost Wisconsin in 36 years".  "No, no, Hillary, you got to go there.  I'm telling you, I don't like what I saw. " "No, what do you know?" He's a professional politician.  She wasn't.  It's one of those little problems in life.  So then it came in, and then we won South Carolina.  We won North Carolina.  Right? And we were leading Pennsylvania by so much that if I lost, remember at 2% of the vote left, if I lost every single vote, I win by a lot.  They refused, competition that he's got.  I know he's got James' support.  He's got my support.  I give him 100% endorsement.  Jim Inhofe.  I'd give it to James too, but he's not running this time.  Thank you.  Jim, great job.  Thank you very much.  What a great Senator he is.  Also here is a man who's respected by so many.  He's a little bit right of the people we've been talking about tonight.  Senator Tom Cotton of the great state of Arkansas.  Thank you, Tom.  They like you the benefit for the people that live in Florida, or Colorado, or New Jersey, or wherever you are.  This has been going on for a long time.  No president has wanted to do it.  You know how long it took me to make that decision? I said, "If you can say 50%, or 25%, or 15% buy it.  Do it.  Go. " And I gave him authorization, "Do it. " We are protecting Medicare for our nation's seniors.  Democrats want, and you know this, Democrats want to raid Medicare to fund benefits for illegal long, the aircraft carriers that cost 10 times more than they should cost, and then they use the electric catapults.  You've heard that.  Right? They don't want to use steam.  Why? Because it's too simple, because it works, because it's better.  So they go to electric catapults that they're working on for years now.  Elevators that are operated my magnets instead of hydraulic.  Magnets.  It sounds good.  Trust me, it doesn't work.  One little glass of water.  We're in the ocean.  One little glass of water, boom, those magnets people were saying a year ago, "He didn't build the wall yet.  He didn't build the wall. " Let me tell you.  When you have the strength of a party that has the House, okay, hopefully they're not going to have the House for long.  We'll have a wonderful new speaker, will get rid of Nancy Pelosi, nervous Nancy, nervous Nancy.  We'll have Kevin McCarthy who's been fantastic.  We have to win back the House.  But think of this.  The wall, so many people were saying, "Build it. " Well, it's not easy  And everybody finds it fascinating.  And it is fascinating.  I wish I had time to listen more often.  It's a little tough as president, but everybody finds it fascinating.  And we gave Rush, because he's such an important person and done such an incredible job the Presidential Medal of Freedom.  And Catherine, his wife is great.  What a couple.  But Rush has been unbelievable.  He's so on our side.  And he was from literally day one, right from the beginning.  And we don't have to mention Sean, and Laura, They're citizens of France.  They're citizens of these various countries in Europe.  Take your fighters. " "We don't want them, sir.  We don't want them. ' And I said, "How unfair are we treated? We do them a great favor, and they won't take the fighters. " So we're doing some things that are pretty amazing.  Every once in a while you have to change course, and do what you have to do.  The United States has spent $8 trillion in the Middle East.  We've lost thousands of brave soldiers, and tens of thousands you're hurting the economy.  Our economy is doing phenomenally well.  And it's not only is it a V, it's a super V.  You see what's happened.  We just had a jobs number come out, 1. 4 million.  It's down to 8. 4%.  Nobody thought that, 8. 4.  So we had the greatest economy, we closed it up and now we're opening it up and your state should go with it.  We're opening it up.  And we will have a great third quarter.  It's going to be announced, by the way, but really that was an exciting, a really good quality convention.  Really great.  So many people.  So many people, you saw some tragic situations, some really great endorsements, you saw everything.  If you… How about the endorsement of Herschel Walker? When you watch that that was from the heart.  That was from the heart.  Dana White today.  I just saw it today because last night I was looking at this speech a little bit.  We had a wonderful turnout last night.  What I didn't like, you saw this right, when it was even possible.  I saw John Kerry on television the other day.  "It is not possible. " Then we waited a little while.  He went very, very strong, "It is not possible. " And, it was not only possible, we have many countries that are joining us very soon.  We killed the founder and the leader, the vicious leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, we killed him.  And, we also took out the world's number one terrorist and the mass murder of American troops and many, many troops and many people, all over the world.  Qasem  Another record is that between the ages of 25 and 34, people are now working, and that's a record, the number of people, 25 to 34.  And under the so-called Trump Economy, the lowest paid earners are reaping the fastest gains of any group.  And that's a great thing.  This is a blue collar boom, and that's a good thing too.  That's a good thing.  Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10% for the first time ever, for the first time ever.  And median household income think it's wonderful.  But together we're building the world's most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society.  That's true.  Since my election, over 125- That's true.  Since my election, over 125,000 new jobs have been created right here in Nevada, including over 40,000 new Nevada manufacturing and construction jobs.  A 30% increase.  The national unemployment rate is the lowest in over half a century, and soon we're going to have that be a historic number like so many of the others.  The average unemployment rate for my administration, this is the coolest of borders, they don't mind crime.  We do mind crime and that's the way it is.  Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities.  Last year alone sanctuary cities declined more than 17,000 requests from federal authorities to hand over criminal aliens already in their custody.  In other words, 17,000 criminal aliens were released by these cities directly into US communities.  You don't understand even what the hell are they doing? What are they doing? 17,000.  Republicans believe our city should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.  We will always support the tariffs and allow China to resume its pillaging.  He wants to take the tariffs off that are paying us tens of billions of dollars a year.  I fought like hell to keep them into the China deal and he wants to remove them.  So tens of billions of dollars, billions and billions, I gave it to the farmers.  I gave it to a lot of people, but I gave most of it by far, to the US Treasury.  He wants to take them off.  So let me just ask you just a very innocent taken in billions and billions of dollars.  We never took in 25 cents from China.  And I gave $28 billion, right, $28 billion to the farmers because they were targeted unfairly by China.  And our farmers are very unhappy.  I don't think we have too many farmers in this wonderful Pennsylvania town.  I know we have a lot of boilermakers over there.  We got a lot of boilermakers, I'll be talking about them.  Look at those guys.  Nobody going to mess with them.  I'll tell you.  We're going to be they did.  And we won very quickly.  But from now on, we want to fight where it is to the benefit of the United States of America, not to the benefit of other countries.  And we will only fight to win.  We're only going to fight to win.  We don't fight to win.  We don't fight to win.  The Turks have been fighting with the Kurds for two centuries, and Turkey, as you know, is a NATO ally.  But I've been rough on them.  We've defeated 100% of that ISIS caliphate, McCarthy.  We've received record funding for the US military, 700 billion last year, 716 billion dollars this year, 738 billion dollars … And you know, know I'm a big believer in budgets but we have no choice.  We had to rebuild our military with all that's going on today with China, with Russia, with radical Islam, with everything that's happening, we had to do something.  And you know, budgets are fine, I love budgets and we will get to that, don't worry about it.  But we had to rebuild, our military was totally depleted, it was all that we've all gone through.  We are changing Washington, that's what's been happening.  And, just in conclusion, and I hate concluding with you because I like you.  I like you.  I don't know why the hell I like Wisconsin, but for some reason.  You know what helps so, as you know for weeks before the election, she was four up, crooked Hillary, four up, four up, four up, I kept saying, "Do you think we're going to win?" And I will say, Sean Duffy said, "You're going to win. " He actually said, "Don't said? Every one of them, plus many others, "There's no other man that we've ever met that could have taken it. " It's true.  Maybe I'm a little different up here.  I don't know.  But I enjoy it.  To me, I'm energized because we're draining the swamp.  The Democrats' brazen attempt to overthrow our government will produce a backlash at the ballot box the likes of which they have never ever seen before in the history of this country.  These are bad people.  My phone call, as an example, with the president of are right there.  They're right at the starting gate and they're going to be fantastic.  So it's good.  With Biden, if you had that regime, you'd be three years away because it would have never gotten out of the FDA.  What we've done in a very safe manner is amazing.  Now remember this, Biden was in charge of the swine flu, right? It's called the H1N1.  Remember he calls it the N1H1.  I said, "No, no, no, no. " H comes before the N.  It's so easy.  But he goes, "The way, it expires so soon.  They can have nuclear weapons.  They're not, as I said before, they will not have nuclear weapons.  … They hit us with 16 missiles, and I said, "How many?" We were ready to go.  We were ready to go.  I said, "How many? How many died? How many were wounded?" "Sir, none. " None? Pretty good warning system, none.  How many were hurt? How many were … None, sir.  So, we didn't do anything.  We were ready.  We were ready.  Not that I wanted to, over.  No, we got a call, we heard where he was, we knew the way he was getting there, and we had to make a decision.  We didn't have time to call up Nancy, who is not operating with a full deck.  No, they want us to call, can you imagine calling crooked Adam Schiff? He's so crooked, he's so crooked.  Shifty Schiff and say, "Gee, Adam, how are you doing? Listen, we have the world's number one terrorist, killed thousands and thousands of people.  We'd like to set up a meeting so we can Prime time, one o'clock, two o'clock in the morning is not exactly prime time.  We had 32,000 and they had a tiny little crowd, and I looked at my people and I said, "I know we're not supposed to win the great state of Michigan, but I think we're going to win Michigan" and we won Michigan and we won Wisconsin.  We won Wisconsin.  Wisconsin was a great victory, and we won Pennsylvania, and we won North Carolina and South Carolina, and we won Florida, and I hate to tell you we should've won New Hampshire.  the end, they don't see any, I said, "Russia, if you're listening …" Oh, these people are sick.  He wants to erase your borders.  Yeah, that was supposed to be a joke, right? It was a joke.  It was a joke, everybody was laughing, but they refused to go that extra quarter of a second.  He wants to indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in education.  To combat the toxic left wing propaganda in our schools, I am launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called, 1776 Commission.  It's already done.  lot of good things are happening.  But these same politicians poured precious American blood and treasure into the sands of the Middle East while allowing our cities to fall into disrepair and decay.  Our failed ruling class believed it was their right to rule over you, to take your money, to take your jobs, to redistribute your wealth all over the globe, wherever they wanted it.  But I don't like that.  I don't like that.  The great sellout has ended, and it ended the day I took the oath of office.  That was quite we have achieved some of the great numbers.  The case fatality rates, we have the lowest of any major country in the world.  People don't know that because the fake news doesn't want to write about it.  Under Operation Warp Speed, we're producing a vaccine in record time.  This is a vaccine that we're going to have very soon, very, very soon, by the end of the year, but much sooner than that, perhaps.  And this is something that's incredible.  This would have taken two or three years by the last administration, and in I do, are roaring back to life! JSW Steel is investing five hundred million dollars in Acero Junction.  Republic Steel is reopening the Loraine Mill that they idled in 2016.  Charter Steel is building a 150 million dollar mill in Cuyahoga Heights and Nucor is investing 85 million dollars at a facility in Marion, Ohio.  Think of that.  I think you do.  The steel industry was dead and now it's vibrant.  All told, American steel companies are currently making 13 billion dollars worth of new investments all across our nation.  Think of that. They don't like to write that.  They don't like to write it.  They have all fake polls.  I'll tell you what, the polls are worse than the writing.  Actually, in my opinion, the polls, they're suppression polls, they're meant to make people discouraged, Even me, I'm supposed to be discouraged.  And fortunately, four years ago, we weren't discouraged, because if we would have believed the polls, nobody would have voted.  The concept is really make people feel so that on election, they go, "Darling, let's go out to dinner.  It's so sad about Texas.  He came out of Texas, a very hot political property, and he went back as cold as you can be.  So he was a nasty guy, but he had a couple of policies that don't work well in the state of Texas.  Right? He was against religion.  He was against you having a gun.  And he was against oil.  So you come from Texas, you don't like religion, you don't like oil, and you don't have guns.  I don't know.  That's not a good combination in the state of Texas.  people, thousands and thousands.  I mean like 25, 30,000, many people outside couldn't get it.  It was like a sea of people.  My wife said, "Was it a large crowd?" I said, "Did you watch?" "Yes.  But they only show your face. " And I saw people they never show.  And that includes Fox, which has changed a lot, changed a lot, sad.  Somebody said, "What's the biggest difference between 2016 and now?" You know what I said, "Fox. " Biggest difference.  Biggest difference.  I don't know what's going on with them. wall that they built a new one. " They have it, but the commission your commissioners wrote, I quote, "Our communities do not have the resources nor the budgets to handle the massive influx of immigrants we are experiencing. " This is your commissioners writing to us in Washington.  Our scarce resources are in danger of being rapidly depleted to the point that we will be unable to effectively care for our own citizens, you, and our existing homeless populations, many of whom are American veterans, right? So, Democrats put illegal aliens before American citizens.  Republicans believe that it up closer, I can't see it, dammit. " Great.  This is something.  You know, we have a debate coming up in three weeks.  And here's the problem.  Winston Churchill.  Did you ever hear of Winston Churchill? Winston Churchill was a great debater.  Great.  And if Joe gets off the stage, walks off the stage, if he makes it, which I think he probably will, in all fairness, he's been doing this for 47 years, right? I think he probably will.  If he gets off the stage, they're going to say it Thank you very much.  Thanks, Laura.  We spent the last four years reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years.  47 years of bad votes.  After the last administration nearly killed the US auto industry, I saved the US auto industry.  Joe Biden supported the disastrous Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for American auto jobs.  I withdrew from the TPP my first week in office.  That was so easy.  That was so easy.  You wouldn't have been making cars.  You would've been want people- … people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we want people that are going to come in and are going to love for our country, not hate our country.  Here in Yuma, Arizona, we've invested over $1. 7 billion and poured 180,000 cubic yards, that's a lot of concrete, to build 108 miles of powerful border wall.  I know who's going to vote for me.  I don't know though, I think I'm going to win Yuma.  What do you think, Doug? I think, when I hear say things that's going to want to make your wife say, "Why did I marry this guy?" Just say, "Don't worry about it.  It's just another phony story. " Thank you very much Mr.  and Mrs.  Lewis.  Jason, thank you.  And Jason, they can say that about Tom Cotton.  He's too perfect, this guy.  He can't say… They can't say it about you, Tom.  Anyway, good luck Jason.  Do well.  And I don't know why, but with all of the great people I just introduced, for tonight, maybe this is to open.  You can have a riot where you kill people in the streets.  25,000 people don't have to wear a mask, nothing.  They can march down the streets, step on each other's face, they can do whatever the hell they want, that's okay.  But you can't go to church.  They have ideas, they have plans, and it's never happening with me as your President.  That I can tell you.  And you see it, they want to tear down crosses from public spaces.  You see it.  Since I signed a little are a lot of them in the works.  Here in America, we're creating the United States Space Force and we're working closely with India to enhance space cooperation.  In November, the United States and India will demonstrate a dramatic progress of our defense relationship, holding the first ever tri-service military exercise between our nations.  It's called Tiger Triumph.  Good name, it's a good name.  Very good name.  Today, we honor all of the brave American and Indian military service members who work together to safeguard our freedom.  We stand proudly in defense of billions, and billions of dollars.  Just recently, very slow, Slippy Joe … Biden that is, said of China's piracy and plunder, "They're not that bad, folks. " He always used the word folks.  I watched him today, he used the word folks.  "Hi folks.  Hi.  Hi, My time is up.  I got to leave. " No, they have him all freaked out because he makes a mistake every time he speaks.  So I can just see these handlers, because they're handlers, like they use on horses, they're handlers, right? "All right, get him games.  After years and years of building up other countries we are finally building up our country, standing up for our jobs, our workers, and standing up for our dignity.  The forgotten men and women of America will never ever be forgotten again.  You were forgotten.  The last administration with sleepy Joe and Obama tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated, worse than NAFTA, worse than WTO.  It was called the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  It would have been a disaster.  TPP would have gutted the American auto industry.  Ted did a very good job.  I tell you, he did a great job.  But Beto went totally south.  He's gone crazy.  So he now is a big gun guy.  He wants to take guns away from everybody.  So who did Biden put in charge? Beto.  Remember Beto was interviewed in some magazine or third-rate magazine, most of them are, but remember? And Beto said, this was at the beginning before he got beat to hell.  I said, "He thought this was easy, didn't he?" But remember when Beto said, "I was They don't like telling you that.  Next year, unless you have somebody that's going to quadruple your taxes, raise your taxes, raise up all of those regulations that we cut, next year will be one of the greatest years of the history of our country.  At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, and two agendas for the future.  There's never been a vision like this.  You have sleepy Joe and you have Trump.  Sleepy Joe, he's a beauty.  He's a beauty.  He's a upset about it.  So now they're trying to hurt the vaccine.  And they're trying to say as many bad … They know nothing about it, but they're trying to hurt it, and it's a shame.  But he said it better than anybody I've heard.  He said, "You're trying to hurt this country by saying bad things about the vaccine, because we're going to produce it early. " It's the craziest thing.  Think about it.  Now, having a vaccine is good, but we're rounding the turn regardless.  We're rounding the turn, and it's happening. the history of our country.  Last week, retail sales numbers came in, retail sales, the single greatest number in the history of our country.  So here's what's going to happen.  Here's what's going to happen.  They blame a President for anything.  When you see looters, even though we put them down, if we didn't stop them, nobody would because the other side will never stop them.  But they always blame a President.  Here's what's happening.  We're going up.  We're going up.  We're going up.  We're going to go up. are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America will soon be thriving, like never before because, ladies and gentlemen of Oklahoma, the best is yet to come.  Together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you.  Thank you, Oklahoma.  Thank you. Well, thank you very much.  And hello, Tupelo.  This is great billion.  A trillion.  So they did a very smart thing and we're not looking for regime change.  They've tried that with Libya.  They go, Hillary Clinton, let's get rid of Libya.  Let's get rid of Gaddafi.  Let's get rid of Gaddafi.  How's that working out? Right? Let's get rid of Gaddafi.  That was a Hillary deal.  Then you had Benghazi.  And see Benghazi, they didn't respond.  They didn't respond.  Should be.  Should be to Iraq.  Iraq didn't knock down the World Trade Center just in case  Now I can say for the first time in 20 years, wages are rising, and you know who's the biggest beneficiary? Blue collar workers.  My administration is fighting to expand opportunity for citizens of every background and every race, religion, color, and creed.  Very important.  Because we are all Americans.  We all share the same home.  We all share the same heart.  We all share the same dreams.  We are all children of the same Almighty God.  But at the very moment when our country should be coming together to enjoy  You'd think she'd wait like a day.  She wanted to smother the impeachment crap, and that's probably what she did, at least to an extent.  But any Democrat that votes for this sham will be voting to sacrifice their house majority, their dignity, and their career.  Okay? And some of these partisan lunatics have already said that if they fail this time, think of this.  How about Low IQ Maxine Waters? How about Green? How about Green? We've Green.  How about Green, where he said, "We have to impeach him because if we don't We're saving your healthcare while these socialist Democrats are trying to take away your healthcare.  We are making healthcare better and much, much cheaper.  You've seen what we did.  We are protecting people with preexisting conditions and we always will.  The Republican party always will.  Always will.  And we got rid of the most unpopular thing in the healthcare world, the individual mandate.  We had to pay a fortune not to have pay a fortune.  You paid a fortune not to pay a fortune for bad healthcare.  And we got rid  Just last week Sleepy Joe proudly accepted the endorsement of the pro-criminal anti-police Portland District Attorney who has a policy of releasing rioters, vandals, criminals and violent extremists without charge.  Now last night though, they arrested more than they've ever done because we said you have to.  We said you have to and we told them about … We will federalize them, we'll do whatever you need and I spoke to the governor, it looks like they're finally, after 107 days, like they're finally doing what they're supposed to be doing but we'll let you know very it. " They won't like border security.  I think they going to love it.  You know why? Because you understand it better than other people, but at the whole center of this crisis is the drugs that are pouring in, and you understand that when other people don't understand it.  The border crisis, every day dangerous criminal cartels smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across your Southern border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl, and we're stopping them now.  You see the kind of numbers, we're getting millions and millions and millions of dollars worth.  family, tough… For me, it's my life.  I do it, I do it.  It's one thing, but very tough on a family thing, a thing like this happens, it's a disgrace.  But day after day we're exposing something called that filthy, disgusting, horrible swamp and we're cleaning it up.  And now after and a half years now that the Russia witch hunt is dead, a big fat disgusting fraud, the Congressional Democrats are pushing the impeachment witch hunt having to do with Ukraine, but that's already failing.  You saw their so-called articles of impeachment today, it sooner, but statutorily that's when it had it start.  Could you imagine if this guy's in and prices start dropping like a rock? And they'll say, What a great president he is.  He would have never done it.  And your drug prices, prescription drug, I'm instituting favorite nations laws.  So we're going to pay what other nations pay at the lowest.  And you'rr going to get back rebates that were given to middlemen who have to be the richest people in the world.  We'll protect medicare and social security, and we will protect could lose Texas. " I keep saying, I go to a stadium, we sell out to thousands of people, lines that are miles long.  I mean, and every friend of mine says, "You're going to win by a lot. " 00, whatever time, "The polls in Texas are closed.  Donald Trump has won this state of Texas.  The polls in Utah are closed.  Donald Trump has won the state of Utah. " They don't even take a breath.  Now, if it's close like it's in play, you wait two, three, four or five hours to moving thousands of people from MS-13.  These gangs are the worst people.  These people, these are not human beings.  You know, I said that once before and this crazy Nancy Pelosi said, "How dare you say they're not human?" You ever see these people? And they slice people up with a knife because it's more painful than using a gun.  And then I have to defend myself when I say they're animals.  But you know what? I never changed.  I didn't say, "Oh, I'd like to apologize.  I'd like to apologize.  Crazy N1H1. " We say, "No. " But it's the swine flu.  Maybe we just call it the swine flu.  He did such a gross, horrible job on that.  His own man who was in charge of it said they didn't have a clue.  They didn't know what they were doing.  It was a much less lethal disease and they lost many, many people.  Many, many people.  It was totally incompetently.  And now I got this guy standing up.  Well, we're giving him advice.  His own guy that ran it.  till … Right up until the moment of birth.  And in the case of the Virginia governor, he's having a rough, rough time.  In his case, the baby is born, and then he goes to talk to the mother.  The doctor talks to the mother.  The baby is now born, wrapped as he said, and then they decide whether or not to execute the baby.  Who would believe that.  That is why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred, the gift of God. work.  They spent $5 billion.  Right? And they spent $500 million on all of the problems it caused and we've really straightened it out, but it's still lousy healthcare, Obamacare.  And it's really not Obamacare anymore because when you get rid of the individual mandate, it's no longer Obamacare but we're going to terminate it.  We're going to give you your preexisting a hundred per- otherwise I won't do it.  We're going to give you brand new preexisting and we're going to have a great healthcare that's much less expensive.  And we're fighting to for the values that bind us together as one America.  We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with our incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life.  We believe that mothers and fathers, not Washington bureaucrats, know best how to raise their strong, beautiful families in their loving and wonderful communities.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  And we will always live by of birth.  And that is why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption.  Look at what's happening to their cities.  Los Angeles, it's so sad.  What you see is so sad with the homeless and the way they don't take care of the homeless.  San Francisco, starting in New York.  You could take a look at what's happening to our coming after me because I am fighting for you.  And that's true.  That's true.  And we're winning the fight and we're winning this election.  This election, we are doing well.  They refuse to say it.  They refuse to say it, and they hate to say it.  It just drives them crazy.  But that night, remember they started off by saying, "This will be a very short evening for Donald Trump. " That was Donald Trump in those days.  Now, it's President Trump.  I lost all my friends because of this American Dream.  For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  You remember that? Gee, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry.  Now you have a President who's standing up for America, we are standing up for Minneapolis, and we are standing up for the great state of Minnesota.  We begin this political campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for America.  We begin this campaign with right now almost three years of perhaps the most successful administration in the history of our country.  Together, we us… that Republicans are energized, that we're united, and that nine months from now we are going to take back the House of Representatives.  We are going to hold the Senate and we are going to keep the White House.  You know, they always talk about the Democrats.  They have enthusiasm, right? We have so much more enthusiasm than them.  It's not even close.  They're all fighting each other.  They're all going after each other.  You got them all over the place.  They don't know what the hell they're doing.  They police, I guess, a billion dollars a year worth of police, worth of great police, firemen and women.  It's a terrible thing.  I love that place so much and it's so sad to see what's happening to New York.  We're going to make a little bit of a play for New York.  In theory, the Democrats automatically win New York, but I do phenomenally in most parts.  Then one part, it's automatic, but I can't imagine that particular part is going to be very happy.  So, we're going to make a play for New to this… 22%.  That's not good enough but credit to opioid.  And as we continue rebuilding our military, we have the star legendary Army tank factory in Lima.  And we've authorized 441 new striker fighting combat vehicles and 453 new Abrams tanks to be built in the Buckeye State.  That's a lot of tanks.  So wait, just a quick story.  Okay? I'm proud of this.  So they had this Army tank plant, right, in Lima.  And I said "What's going on?" "They're closing it. " "Oh. " "They're closing.  They're closing You will vote to reject Democrats extremism, socialism and corruption, and you will vote to reelect Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin who's done a great job.  Matt's a veteran.  He's a patriot.  He's done it all.  He's been a very, very successful business leader.  He put his whole life at stake to help this state and the job he's done is incredible.  Under his leadership, Kentucky has created over 57,000 new jobs, but I helped also.  We work together.  Now, he is difficult.  I have to say, you know, maybe because of not just a one sided equation.  A shut down causes big problems also.  And at this point, when the economy is roaring back.  We had record job numbers this last quarter, over 9 million jobs.  We're going to throw that all out? We have a market… You know, your stock market.  Who has 401k's here? Your 401k's and your stocks, when you have stocks, would be obliterated.  And right now, we have just, on two of your markets, as you know, S&P and NASDAQ, you're at new records.  And you're about to hit in terms of playing.  And the governors have a lot of power over that.  They have a lot of power, a lot of say.  So let's play Big Ten football, right? They want to shut down auto production, delay the vaccine.  They want to destroy your suburbs.  Look at what I've done for your suburbs.  You know what I've done.  You know what I've done.  Does anybody want to have somebody from Antifa as a member and as a resident of your suburb? I don't think so too much.  Say, "Darling, a nasty one too.  But remember, everybody said, I was going to be in war.  Everybody said, "Oh, maybe I'll do something with social security. " And, I did.  I saved it and made it stronger.  And now, I'm going to make it even stronger.  And, they're going to get rid of your social security because everything's going to come collapsing down.  You will have a depression.  If he gets in, they're going to raise interest rates.  They're going to raise your taxes, you will have a depression.  The likes of to know what people say.  She said, right, that Bernie stated strongly that a woman can't win for president.  A woman can win for president.  Fortunately that could happen.  Who knows? But she said that Bernie said, "A woman can't win. " I don't believe that Bernie said that.  I really don't know.  Just it's not the kind of a thing he'd say.  If you want to keep America safe, just vote Republican.  We're doing so well.  We're doing so well.  Now this was … leave him alone.  That's story before, when we were signing, we were almost finished and I said, "How much are the farmers getting?" Meaning how much are they going to purchase from the farmers.  And Ambassador Lighthizer said, "We put 20 billion, sir.  The highest ever was 16, so we made it 20. " I said "Make it 50. " They said, "What?" And then people, even farm people, said, "Sir, we can't produce that much. " I said, "That's a good problem, not a bad problem. " I said, "Make it 50," so we now have, in the contract, from 40 in 10 days.  He's going to start 10 days.  Ten days.  I mean, I gave a big speech last night.  I said, "What am I doing tomorrow night?" You're going to New Hampshire, but sir, we can cancel New Hampshire because you had a big night.  We can cancel.  Are you crazy? I don't have the courage to cancel New Hampshire.  I got to win New Hampshire.  I love the people and you've been very good to me.  You've been very good to me.  You've been very good to me. that.  Since the election, we have created seven million new jobs.  The average unemployment rate, under my administration, listen to this, is lower than any previous administration in the history of our country.  Can you believe that? The lowest unemployment rate.  African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded, think of that.  More than two million millennials, you know what millennials are, young, great people with a lot of future, they have gotten jobs, and their wages have grown by nearly 5% annually.  That's a record. our troops, back home in the USA where they belong.  All coming home.  During the pandemic, I've suspended the entry of foreign workers who threatened American jobs.  As our economy reopens, I want to ensure that Americans are first in line to get the great jobs and the high wages.  America first.  Biden wants to flood the economy with cheap labor to replace US workers.  You know that.  And that's why never, never, I see his say, hire American.  He got it for me, all the words he's got there, are my no experience he's taken more money from more countries.  He had no job and then he became rich.  But where's Hunter who facilitated the sale of a Michigan automotive company to a leading Chinese military defense contractor? Does anyone know that China's military got yet another piece of American manufacturing, Mike and the Biden family made a lot of money on it.  It was a lot of money.  What about Ukraine? He got $183,000 a month, $3 million upfront and he had no experience with energy, working for an energy company, by the way.  What's the movie the other day in Colorado, I guess.  I said, "Huh, South Korean movie won. " They said, "ladies and gentlemen, the winner of the Academy Award is …" A movie made in South Korea, what's this all about? And I deal with them, they like me.  We're helping them a lot.  They're killing us on trade.  They beat us on trade and then they win the Academy Award for a fricking movie.  But we redid that trade deal, but the other day they got me on this one too.  I said, "whatever them.  It's when you have them.  But nobody's ever built force like what we have.  And the newspapers and the press and the fake news they went and said, "He just gave away classified information!" I said, "No, I will look you right in the eye," first of all, I'm allowed to do it, I'm the president, so I'm allowed to actually.  I'm the only one that's allowed to.  But no, no, I didn't give away.  I'm just telling you, most powerful weapons ever produced we have, and other countries know that.  And for the American people, the radical left Democrats and the failed Washington establishment are trying to erase your votes, nullify the election and overthrow our democracy.  Not going to happen, don't worry about it.  I wouldn't lose too much sleep over it.  And I have to say this about the Republicans, the Republicans… And you have a lot of great ones here tonight, your Congressman.  You have a lot of great ones, these congressmen are great.  The Republicans have never been so United as they are right now, ever.  The House, the Senate, we've said we all voted against it.  I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel.  You never know nowadays, right? And I opened the U. S.  embassy in Jerusalem.  I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  They've been trying to get that done for 52 years, I got it done immediately.  By the way, as far as the capital of Israel, Jerusalem, they've been talking about many, many presidents.  They all promised it, nobody did it.  I did it.  We get things done, and we just did something that it right back, and we put it on for a long time, and now you're making … But remember this, go check it out.  The Chicken Tax.  I'll tell you why someday at another meeting why they call it that.  Maybe you don't want to know about it.  But we're keeping those small trucks, and we're keeping our whole industry good.  And we're expanding our autos now, our cars, and we're doing a great job of it, and I want to thank everybody.  Doing a great job.  And by the way, many other  I mean, who is doing well with their 401k? Up 90%.  Up 104%.  Is there anybody doing badly with the 401k? I'd like to not talk to that person.  Does anybody have a 401k where they're doing badly, please? Oh, don't put up your hand.  I don't believe it.  Nah, the 401ks, they're up 90%, 95%.  I always tell this story.  People come up to me.  They say, "I want to thank you.  My wife thinks I'm a total loser, sir.  She thinks I am the worst person with the heroes of ICE and border patrol, vote for Tate Reeves.  Tuesday.  Got to get out.  You got to get out.  Got to send the signal.  Let it be a big victory too.  The Democrat party has never been more extreme, you know that, than it is today.  The Democrat healthcare agenda would obliterate Medicare.  I will always protect Medicare for our seniors, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.  Always.  We'll always take care of them.  Virtually every Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies basement.  But I can be bad to him because he put the most vicious ad on television that I've ever seen.  Do you know what I'm talking about? Where I'm standing over the graves of our fallen warriors, our fallen heroes.  These are great people, the greatest people there are, and I'm standing over there and they have some sleazebag reporter from a third rate magazine having some source quoting me saying, I won't even use the term, but saying bad things.  And there's nobody that loves our military, respects it and the people more than better.  They walk out, that's to me even better, but ultimately long-term, those vaccines are going to be great, and they're really working out well and it's going to be really soon.  The people in certain groups are trying to hold them up as long as possible, as long as possible.  They're going to try and give Sleepy Joe the credit.  He doesn't even know what a… It's possible.  They're going to try and get Sleepy Joe the credit.  He doesn't even know what a vaccine is.  Europe is almost 30% higher excess a big vet.  He wanted the vets.  He didn't care about anything else, but the vets.  Honestly, he couldn't have cared less about anybody here except the vets, but I did a good job, right? We did a good job for the vets.  Very importantly, very, very US Senate candidate Corky Messner.  Good, Corky.  I hear you're doing well.  Good, Corky.  Get them.  We need Corky.  Get them.  I hear you're doing well, Corky.  Congressional candidate Matt Mowers.  Matt, thank you.  Thank you, Matt.  Great But my father taught me.  He said, "If you can win and spend less money, that's a good thing, not a bad thing.  That's a good thing, not a bad thing. " Like if you get along with the leaders of other lands and don't go to war all the time with everybody and can come out on top without having to shed blood all over the place and destroy your families and your country, like when I get along with Putin, when I get along with Kim Jong-un.  Whatever happened to the war we were supposed you.  That's really great.  Thank you very much.  I guess Dan's speech wasn't so good.  What do you think? That's great.  Thank you very much.  Great job.  Thank you, Doctor.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you, law enforcement.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you, Dan.  That was a good job.  That was a good job.  He means it, too.  He's great.  Go out and vote tomorrow for Dan Bishop, please.  So, we've had great support over the last six months in  So it surprises me every single time.  But make America great again, MAGA, has never won one of these polls.  You know why? We've rebuilt our military, we've cut taxes, we've cut regulation, our stock market hit records.  It's called keep America great.  I mean, we've done so much.  And I just got a free… See these Democrats, they go out and spend $1 million on a poll.  What I do is I take my own poll.  And they'll interview 203 people.  203 people say they'll get it wrong.  Because suppression polls.  They make them so bad that you lose all your appetite, you lose all your spirit, they take your guts out, and you don't go and vote, and your wife looks at you and says, "Darling I love that guy, but he's not going to win.  He doesn't have a chance because the polls, he's down 10, he's down 20, he's down 50 points, darling.  He can't possibly win.  Let's go have dinner and then we'll come home and watch his concession speech. " But my people didn't buy that because my people went vote and say he voted.  Franklin Graham said Billy Graham, maybe the greatest of all, maybe the greatest of all time, he said "My father, Billy Graham," who was very old at the time and in trouble, he was in trouble, he was not well, "he voted for Donald Trump. " What a great tribute that was to me.  What a great tribute.  Great family.  Unemployment has reached the lowest level in over 51 years.  African-American, Hispanic-American, and Asian-American unemployment have all reached the lowest rates ever, ever, ever recorded.  Wages are rising fast. about? They said Donald Trump who spoke before a nice crowd.  If Bernie or sleepy Joe has, I mean Joe had a crowd that was so small the other day that they set up a round table.  No, it's true.  No, they were in a gymnasium.  There were in a gymnasium, and they set up a round table, and people that went there to hear his speech are now being asked, "What do you think of socialism?" They just said, "I just want to be here to watch his speech. " They set up a round- to keep that beautiful, gorgeous, incredible White House.  People don't realize this is a lot of work.  I just left Michigan, and Michigan is booming now because of me, meaning, my people.  I say to Prime Minister Abe, he's a friend of mine, "Shinzo," Japan, "You got to do something.  You got these massive deficits for our country.  You got to open up plants in Michigan fast, Shinzo.  Fast.  You've got to do it. " "Yes, I will do it. " He'll do it, and he's doing it.  Countries are coming in use bad language.  The word hell is a terrible word.  These people are sick.  But that was an amazing evening.  I'll never forget that evening.  Look.  Outside of your family and your children and things… I love you too, darling.  It was one of the highest rated evenings in the history of television.  You add up all those networks.  Remember the woman crying? Oh my God.  No, they weren't biased at all.  Now, another very special man who's with us today, but he'll never be a man to me, don't get enough credit.  "If you can't get to a doctor quickly you go outside, you go locally, you get a doctor, we pay the bill, you get yourself all better. " Right? So I went back.  I went back and I told my people, "Do you have any idea how smart I am? Listen to this plan I have. " They said, "Actually sir we've known about that plan for 52 years we just couldn't get it approved. " So I said, "Oh that's too bad, I thought it was brilliant," but what I am good at they're not doing very well.  When I came into office, Iran was a real terror.  18 sites of confliction, they were behind every one of them in the Middle East.  And who knows, could have been elsewhere.  And I said we're not going to do it, 150 billion dollars President Obama paid and 1. 8 billion in cash.  Whoever saw a million dollars piled up as a promotion? In hundred dollar bills, it's a lot.  Now take a million dollars and make it 1. 8 billion dollars in cash.  I'm actually more impressed road, but you're going to know in the period of 12 months to 24 months.  You're not going to spend an entire lifetime and then have them raise their hand.  I know all about it from the real estate business, we brought it all the way down.  He wants to give illegal aliens government healthcare and taxpayer funded lawyers, establish a national sanctuary city policy for illegal aliens with criminal records.  You wouldn't believe.  I mean, this stuff is not even really believable, but it is what it is.  He wants to surge refugee They were unfairly targeted. " And that was in order to get me, and by the way, China wants Joe Biden so badly.  Oh, they want… And you know who else would like them very badly? Iran would like them very badly.  Because I ended that Iran catastrophe that we paid 150 billion and 1. 8 billion, in cash.  And you know what's going to happen? They're just waiting for the election because the country is going down the tubes.  Their GDP went down 24%.  Nobody ever heard of that before.  Their country is us all the money we wanted.  It's true.  It's true.  And then they would have said, "See, he didn't keep his campaign promise. " These people are sick.  The Biden nominated justices will shred our Second Amendment, eliminate the right to self defense, and allow the government to confiscate your privately owned firearms.  You know that.  Put in other language, they will end your Second Amendment.  And they will do that.  By the way, if I wasn't here, you wouldn't have a Second Amendment right now.  That would be gone.  son's company, that was paying Hunter Biden, a guy just got thrown out of the Navy … He was paying them millions of dollars, even though, working for an energy company, he had no experience with energy.  He knew less about it than this young … How old are you? Six.  This young, beautiful person in front of me.  Six.  And this young six-year-old is smarter, so I think I'd basically go with her.  So what is it all about? It's called a payoff, but you know what? The fake news, they apologize.  I thousands of acres in a place called Superior National Forest.  Last year, I traveled to Duluth and announced that we would be ending this injustice, reopening Superior National Forest, and restoring mineral exploration for the iron ore mines of Minnesota.  Tremendous jobs.  And now the iron range is back in business.  The last time I was here, a man came up to me, he said, "Sir, President Obama took our heart away, took our life away. ' I'll never forget it.  A man, strong guy, had tears in his eyes.  He said, "You gave but where you have that it's incredible.  99. 9%, especially when we're watching it.  We're watching the sections.  Illegal crossings now are down 75% since last spring.  The powerful border wall was starting to set.  I mean pretty soon we'll be setting records in speed.  It's going up very rapidly.  Very rapidly.  You're seeing it all over and it's going to be really something.  Look, it would be nice if we didn't have to have it.  It would be great, but we have to have it.  They said, "Oh try and win.  We ended the Obama Biden policy of giving work permits to newly arriving, illegal aliens.  Think of that one.  We established the national vetting center, the most advanced visa screening system, anywhere in the world.  We know so much about the people coming in.  We know the good and we know the bad.  We've suspended refugee.  … Good and we know the bad.  We've suspended refugee resettlements from the world's most dangerous regions, because nothing is more important than keeping America safe.  To me, that's number one.  didn't understand.  You got a much better light at a much reduced cost and it's much safer because when those other bulbs break, they really are dangerous.  The gases come out, they're dangerous.  These are the little things that I have to explain.  Otherwise, people will say, "What the hell are you doing with light bulbs for?" And we're trying to do the same thing with cars.  Cars have so much junk on them now to save a tiny little fraction of gasoline.  They have so much junk that they're less safe.  So, have done even better.  I mean, you would have done better.  And North Carolina Republican Party Chair, Michael Whatley.  Michael? Thank you, Michael.  Great job, Michael.  How are we doing, Michael? How's it going? Are we up? I mean, if I lose North Carolina, I'm getting out of here.  This is not … Look at that.  This is not, just so you know, the crowd of a man that's coming in second.  I say it all the time.  I said it when I left Michigan.  2016, the night of the news said, "It was a nice crowd.  Very nice. " If I had one empty seat here, one empty seat in this massive arena, they'd say, "He didn't sell out. " But you know what? We have never had an empty seat from the day your future first lady and I came down the escalator.  Never, not one time.  And we have the biggest arenas in the country.  With your help on November 3rd we are going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats.  We are going to win New Hampshire in a landslide.  This and nobody even talks about it.  19.  I talk about New Hampshire a lot because you had one of the proportionally worst problems of any country, of any state in this incredible country.  You had one of the worst problems of any of the states.  And I talk about you a lot.  It was incredible.  And you still have.  But we brought it down 19% and people are absolutely shocked.  If it weren't for the China plague, the number would be 25 or 30%.  That really hurt us because people sort Amazon Washington Post.  You know, before the election started, about a month before I announced that I was going to do this, I said, "I'm going to become a politician.  I can't believe it.  I'm going to become a politician. " But I looked at the New York Times, and it was like a little leaflet that you hand out at a grocery store, right? The wind would blow it away.  It was dead.  I call it the failing New York Times only because eventually it will fail.  But we built it up.  here, by the way, Japan, and what they've done in Michigan, Ohio, what they've done? By the way, we all love South Carolina, right, right? I think we love it.  Now, South Carolina, we're winning here, but South Carolina, I hate to say this to you, I don't want to make you upset.  We're winning by about 400 points.  I spoke to a great person in South Carolina who said, "Sir, you don't have to come here.  This thing's up by a lot. " What the hell is the difference, right? I mean, we are up, take over the China deal? They are not liking me.  They had the worst year that they've had in 57 years.  Their supply chain is broken up like scrambled eggs and they want to make a deal because those tariffs have given us millions of dollars and billions now, billions and billions of dollars.  We're taking billions and billions of dollars, and you know what we're doing with some of it? Just a small portion, but 100%, they're taking care of … Our farmers got $16 billion last year and $12 billion the year before because they record prosperity or whether we allow the same left wing extremists that have no idea what they're doing to burn down buildings or take control of government, set fire to a whole country.  You know, when they started knocking down the monuments and statues a few months ago, I signed a very strong executive order.  You want to knock them down? That's fine.  But you go to jail for 10 years.  It was amazing.  It was amazing how that stopped.  And then they said, well, we'll do it easily.  We'll do it through things in Michigan.  Biden supported the outrageous fuel economy standards that have hammered the auto industry, and I reversed that rule.  I actually reversed it, and it helped millions of families be able to afford a car.  The United States lost 500 auto and auto parts factories under the Obama-Biden disaster.  Before the virus, my administration added over 200 new auto and auto parts plants.  How about 200? I didn't know that.  200.  200.  I thought it was a little less than that.  Wait, I want to see that again.   I will give you a pardon if I have to.  I'll give you a one-hour pardon.  But with your help, we will lift millions more of our great citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  And you have great congressmen here and I'll tell you, I want to appreciate it, fellas.  Warriors, you're warriors.  You are warriors.  What was it? 196 for and nothing against, right? That doesn't happen "Oh, well, welcome to the United States.  Please, we have a little information.  Okay, and now we're going to release you, and in three and a half years, we schedule a court appearance for you. " Do you believe, this is the only country in the world.  They catch somebody on the border.  You're supposed to be Perry Mason.  You take them to court.  Other countries catch somebody at the border.  They say, " Sorry, you got to get out. " We say, "Oh, may we have your information? We're taking you to  But if we have a close election that means Nevada has the right to, and I love Nevada, I think we're going to win Nevada, except where they're sending all these hundreds of thousands, millions of unsolicited ballots to people in Nevada and people that probably left a long time ago.  It's very unfair, it's very unfair, but think of it.  They have seven days after the election.  Did you know that Mike? Seven days, what does that mean? I want to see the results of the election on November 3.  By the way, if  Maybe he'll get better.  Maybe he'll get better.  We'll see.  We'll see what happens.  Maybe he'll get better.  Just let it be fair, but they don't have that.  We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, ‘Made in the USA. ' Made in America.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America.  Can you believe that? Within 10 years it will be over.  When they told me They said, "Don't do it, sir.  Don't do it.  Please don't do it, sir.  It'll be very embarrassing. " I said, "No, I don't mind being embarrassed.  I don't mind being embarrassed. " We're also very proud that unemployment among Native Americans has reached the lowest rate in nearly two decades.  And we're building an amazing future for citizens of every background, race, religion, color, and creed.  And that's what we have.  That's what we have.  Race, religion, color, and creed.  But the radical left Democrats want to demolish everything that strike that killed the world's number one terrorist Qasem Soleimani.  Soleimani was responsible for murdering and wounding thousands of Americans, and actively planning new attacks, but we stopped him cold.  Yet Washington Democrats, like crazy Bernie Sanders and nervous Nancy Pelosi, they opposed our action to save American lives.  They oppose it.  They oppose it.  You know the roadside bombs that you see hurting our people and lots of other people so badly? The legs, the arms, wiped out.  No legs, no arms.  Soleimani loved that.  That was his weapon of choice. tell young kids, children how bad drugs are, how dangerous they are, how horrible they are, how they destroy your brain, how they do so many bad things.  And they're really very tough ads.  They're hard hitting ads.  And I think they're having a big impact.  You'll see over time you'll see.  Over time you'll see.  But we still have much work to do.  But as a result of these efforts, last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in 31 years.  That's pretty amazing.  And at than ever before.  Proud and great citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  And together with the incredible people of North Carolina, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America million, Tom Steyer.  Never heard of this guy.  Who is he? Where did he get his money? Who is he? He was in the coal business, did you know that? This guy, this phony is a big environmentalist.  He made his money, a lot of it, in the coal business.  Nobody knows that, but he's a fake.  Remember when he walked up to Bernie the other day.  "Hi Bernie.  Hi. " Oh, and he was having a fight with Pocahontas, right? Is this the greatest? Mark Burnett said, "This is the greatest reality well, but you're sending that big message to the rest of the country.  It's so important.  You got to get your friends, you got to vote.  Because if you lose, it sends a really bad message.  It just sends a bad, and they will build it up.  Here's the story.  If you win, they're going to make it like ho hum.  And if you lose, they're going to say, Trump suffered the greatest defeat in the history of the world.  This was the greatest.  You can't let that happen to me.  Justin Gaethje, thank you.  And you feel good about that fight? He said he's going to knock him out.  Well, we're going to be watching.  It's right before the election, but I think I'm going to be watching, okay? I'll be watching, you better believe it.  That's going to be an incredible fight.  Good luck.  Good luck, Justin.  Great fighter.  And also Ali Abdelaziz, right? Abdelaziz.  Great guy.  One of the best.  Thank you very much.  But these are great people that they have so many people They hate it when I say it, but you know, honestly, they are the enemy of the people.  When they lie, they are the enemy of the people.  You are the enemy of the people.  Oh, damn it.  The red lights just went off.  One, two, three, there's one back there, there's one back there, probably, oh it's OAN, thank you OAN.  Every time I get on this subject, they cover me not because they want to, but we get great ratings.  We get ratings.  These little deals that we have here, our own.  You haven't heard that from a politician or a political leader in a long time.  It's called America First.  It's America First.  We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many tremendous Republican leaders and great friends of mine, a man who's doing an incredible job as your governor, because I want to take 100% of the credit for the incredible turnaround of New Hampshire, and I remember it not so long ago, things were not looking good.  People were leaving, a lot of bad things were happening, but we have to give him screaming, turn the camera off.  Our movement is about a brighter future for all Americans of every race, religion, color, and creed.  Joe Biden spent the last 47 years betraying the African American community.  I've spent the last four years delivering for the African American community like nobody, with the exception possibly of Abraham Lincoln, has delivered before.  It's true.  My first week in office, I withdrew the United States from the last administration's horrible, stupid, insane Trans Pacific Partnership.  Would've destroyed the US auto industry and many other industries.  New Hampshire lost I agree with him and he agrees with me on one thing, trade.  The trade.  Because he knew that other countries are ripping us off and so did I.  Nobody else got it.  Especially Biden never got it.  He never got it.  Still doesn't get it.  Now he really gets nothing.  I tell you.  He didn't get it in prime time.  Now he really doesn't get it.  But it's okay for them to make every city look just like Portland which is a disaster.  And again, we could " We just finished a deal with South Korea, a great new trade deal.  We just finished a $40 billion deal with Japan.  We're in the process of getting our deal done.  Let's see what happens.  They want to make it more than I do with because we're taking in a lot of money.  We haven't taken in money from China ever, and it's coming in now by the billions.  When they target our farmer, I give our farmers that money that they've been targeted and our farmers are thrilled.  We have a office, and now that we have more than half of the wall built, and do you notice they don't talk about the wall anymore.  They don't talk.  Why don't you talk? I went, "Look at all those people back there. " That's called fake news, fake news.  Look at them.  It's the fake news.  They don't talk about the wall anymore.  See, we won.  We got the wall.  It's going to be up to 300 next week and it's going to be finished very soon.  And as soon as we want, pro-American agenda has enraged, and you know what's happened, it's enraged the failed ruling class in Washington.  Not easy to get them out, but we're doing it slowly, but surely.  These corrupt politicians and the radical leftists got rich bleeding America dry.  And they knew that my election would finally end their pillaging and looting of our country.  And that's what they were doing.  And that's what they continue to try and do.  That is why, from day one, the wretched Washington swamp has been trying to nullify the results of a truly great it properly, but we're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies.  For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations and corrupt special interest to ship our jobs and factories and all of this stuff and all of this wealth.  They stole our wealth.  They shipped it overseas and to other countries.  America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the WTO, the world trade organization.  Probably an even worse deal for us than NAFTA, if that's possible, but under my administration, the great betrayal of sending them to? Are they sending them to certain areas and not other areas? Are they sending them to Democrat areas? These are all controlled by Democrat governors, like your politically motivated governor.  So, just to finish on that, look, just to finish on that, he's a guy that tried to silence us by not having this.  And it ended up, our crowd turned out to be a lot bigger than NBC, which is owned by Concast.  C-O-N, Concast.  C-O-N-C-A-S-T, Concast.  It's really Comcast, but I call it con because it's a whole con.  a little stroke of the pen.  We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, that incredible phrase, "Made in the USA. " We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within 10 years, and we've already started that program.  It will happen.  We have the medicine.  Nobody even knew that.  The AIDS epidemic in this country will be gone within 10 years.  We've already started the process.  It's been funded. which this country has never seen before.  And, your 401k's and your stocks and jobs will go down in flames.  I just say it here, hopefully we're never going to experience it, but that's what's going to happen.  We will maintain America's unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength.  We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, which I've already signed.  Further reduced health insurance premiums, or the costs of prescription drugs, which are coming down now.  You know, I signed favored nations clauses, their drug companies are not happy and we're winning big.  We're winning big.  Crucially for your state, we have ended the last administration's war on American energy.  And since my election, natural gas productions, big story today, in New Mexico has increased by 40%, 4-0.  And that means great wages, and it means jobs.  And that's why you're breaking every single record in your state's book.  Crude oil production in New Mexico has more than doubled, and going up a lot higher very quickly.  And your state's energy revenues are up by nearly two-thirds.  Think of that.  with Asian Americans, the other side is getting a little nervous because they are like rocket ships.  They're going up.  African American youth unemployment is so important.  It was a horrible number a few years ago.  You remember, it was a really terrible thing was happening.  It's just reached the lowest time in the history, lowest, the best number in the history of our country.  And African American poverty numbers have hit the lowest rate ever recorded.  Wages for African American workers have increased by $2,400 per year, also a record.  And I left the tariffs on 25% and some different amounts.  When I left tariffs largely on and nobody could believe it.  I said to Schumer, "What do you think of the deal?" "I don't like it because you got rid of the tariffs. " I said, "No, we left the tariffs on. " This is what it is.  No matter how you do it, no matter how good the deal, they'll say, "It's no good," because they don't love the country.  They don't love the country.  Remember that.  Joe Biden's agenda is made in We don't want to do that.  To protect our communities, my administration restricted migration from terror-prone nations and implemented the toughest ever vetting procedures.  Toughest ever that we've ever had.  No issue has ever been so horribly discarded by a party as that issue by the Democrats.  They want open borders, which mean crime.  They want sanctuary cities, which means crime and drugs and death.  After bleeding the middle class dry, Democrats threw open our borders to the world, flooding our communities with poisonous drugs and criminal cartels.  Republicans believe in strong borders out of their eyes.  No.  "Mr.  Vice President, what do you think of this? How was your breakfast, sir? Did you enjoy it?" When I banned travel from China Biden, called it hysterical and xenophobic.  He even used, somewhere along the line, the word racist.  He always figures, they always want to get that word in there.  If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands of more Americans would have died.  But instead my decision, saved thousands and thousands of lives.  And then we banned Europe very early because I saw comment from Joe Biden," but he didn't say it.  Professional people, great students in English lit, people that are very smart say it.  Joe Biden said, and they'll go into this highly complex paragraph, beautifully worded and I say, "Joe didn't say that.  Joe doesn't even understand it. " wait a minute, Air Force One is 31 years old.  People don't realize that.  So I said, they gave me a charge, very early in my administration like how about the first week? "Sir, would you sign for this plane?" Now it's actually two planes.  Xi of China?" No, it's terrible, she's always preaching about the mask.  "You got to wear the mask at all times, indoor, outdoor.  When you go to bed at night, put the mask on. " I've spent the last four years keeping my promises and delivering for the African American community and when I'm reelected the best is yet to come.  I'll tell you that.  Perhaps in no area have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds than on the subject of immigration.  Under my administration, we've achieved the most secure border say I was called by the government of The Bahamas and we're helping with The Bahamas.  They were hit so hard.  They were hit so hard.  Who would believe it? We pledged the full support of the federal government through every step of the rebuilding process.  And I will say, North Carolina in our country probably got hit the hardest.  That was a little bit of a surprise, but I know one thing about North Carolina.  You can take it and you'll build it quickly and you'll build it beautifully.  And, you'll be what's happened.  But think of it in 10 years, the AIDS epidemic will be eradicated.  So great.  Who thought that was going to be happening.  Who thought I'd be able to get to say that so early in what we're doing together.  We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious Liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together.  There is one America we will support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States.  We'll stand win because their agenda, it's what they want.  It's the craziest thing I've ever seen.  They both want to cut funding for police.  They want to end that cash bail.  They want to hire far left prosecutors and judges, and let the criminals run wild.  The radical left District Attorney in Portland, Mike Schmidt, his name is, has released hundreds of rioters that announced that anyone arrested for interfering with police officers, disorderly conduct, criminal trespass, rioting, and other offenses will not be prosecuted under any circumstance.  Oh, it's worse.  It's worse.  Francisco this weekend.  Good luck.  So do we have any Green Bay packer fans here tonight? That's right.  And you have a great quarterback who's a good guy, a good guy.  As we begin the year, our economy is booming, wages are rising, poverty is plummeting.  Crime is falling and America is the envy of the entire world.  And then our opponents say, "We're not going to win.  Let's impeach President Trump.  Let's impeach him. " We've got the greatest economy in our history.  Our military has been totally rebuilt.  I'd be able to get a bill.  Once I got it going, got it built, I got the financing, we won a lot of lawsuits, by the way, we won a lot of lawsuits.  They sued us.  Pelosi was suing us.  Congress was suing us.  The Senate was suing us.  We won a lot of lawsuits.  Once it was obvious that we won and we started building, they never talk about the wall anymore.  And I made a terrible, terrible mistake because I had to work my ass off to get that we're now offering health plans that are 60% cheaper than Obamacare.  We're offering a lot of different things.  We have just passed, recently, 10 months ago, Right to Try.  I love Right to Try.  You know what that is? That's people are terminally ill and they can't use medicine because … They've been trying to pass this, almost for 50 years.  You can't use the medicine.  We have the greatest doctors, labs, hospitals in the world.  They come up with a medicine but it has to go through the FDA procedure, right? You "We have 142. " So Mitch and I and Rand would like to thank very much President Obama, because nobody ever been so generous in their life.  Also with us tonight is a great warrior and a great guy, smart, strong, loves your state, and he's really become a good friend of mine.  And I'll tell you, he's a little bit different.  It's okay.  But whenever I've needed him, whenever I needed him, he was always there.  It's true.  I mean, sometimes like I'd say, " I don't need you to vote, Rand. " a little, but I saw great spirit.  But I didn't really have a track record because I never did this stuff before.  So, I said I was going to cut your taxes.  I did.  I said I was going to cut your regulations.  I did more than any president in history and they've been there for many years.  I've been there for two and a half.  And I think the regulation cutting… Like the Waters of the US, that was another beauty where you couldn't build a house, you couldn't farm your land. didn't say yes, in all fairness, but I got sort of like six the 68% there.  But she said, "See he won't. " She's the one that doesn't do it.  No, no, I feel badly because it's too late for her to get in.  I kept hoping, but I think, honestly I think that sleepy Joe, crazy Bernie, I don't even want to put Buttigieg in, but I think they'd actually be tougher than her.  During this campaign season, the good people of Iowa have had a front row seat to the lunacy and the madness drip.  I called the guy, "Something wrong with this?" "No, sir.  It's just the restrictor. " So you're in there five times longer than you're supposed to be.  You use probably more water and it's a very unpleasant experience, right? So we're getting rid of the restrictors.  You're going to have full shower flow.  Full sink.  Did you ever go to the faucet? You turn on the faucet to wash your hands and it turns on so easy.  It's like this, because there's zero pressure behind it.  No water.  You go "General, don't cancel it.  Take it back.  Just tell them we don't like the plane.  Okay?" And I couldn't even say, "I'm going to buy it from Europe. " The only competitor is Europe.  I can't say, "We'll buy it from Europe. " No, that doesn't work out to well.  So I said, "Don't do it.  I don't want to send them a check. " 250 million for nothing.  Right? We don't want to do it.  So I said, "Just tell them, "We don't like it.  The price is too high. these far away places.  We spend hundreds of billions of dollars, and what do we get out of it? Biden voted for the Iraq war, he supported the defense sequester that gutted our military, he opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden, he opposed the killing of Soleimani, he oversaw the rise of ISIS, and for eight years he couldn't find or kill al-Baghdadi, the founder of ISIS.  Couldn't find him, they looked, they couldn't find him.  I found him and we hit him good.  We hit him good.  And you saw the  That's not a positive development.  Before they went into the WTO, China was flat lined.  For years and years and decades, flat lined.  And then they got into the WTO and a lot of bad things happened.  First China's stole our jobs, plundered our intellectual property and unleashed the virus.  And now China is trying to just hug and kiss Joe Biden.  They want him so badly.  Look, if you like China, you should vote for Biden, that I can tell you.  How about his son? You think the son, maybe more than that, you know that, right? It scares the hell out of the fake news, I will tell you.  They can't take a joke.  I also took the strongest ever action to confront China's massive theft of American jobs, and our strategy worked.  Massive tariff and tariff money is pouring in and has poured in, poured in by the billions and billions.  We never took in 25 cents from China.  They ripped us so much you wouldn't believe it.  Now they respect us again.  Last month we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement doubt about it, they're in the state department but they'll get them.  But you know what? 33,000, they have a request from the US Congress, that's not bad, US Congress they send a subpoena, very, very important, and after getting the subpoena, she deleted all of her emails and acid washed, and then she took her telephones.  I've gotten rid of phones too.  I throw them away.  She took cameras and she beat the hell out of them with a hammer and then threw them away.  And they found a couple of them.  She and I'm going there tomorrow.  I'll be going to California tomorrow.  We have meetings with FEMA and all of the different people.  It'll be amazing to see.  It's like the biggest we've ever had.  It's crazy.  It's crazy what's going on.  Thousands and thousands and thousands of acres.  It's crazy.  So we're going to be there tomorrow.  We'll be with the governor.  We're also going to various other places.  Washington also is in big trouble and Oregon.  I spoke with the governor of Oregon and they've never blood.  Sand and blood.  Syria, what do you get out of it? You get sand, you get blood, you get injuries, you get death.  These people don't know what the hell they're doing and it's one of the reasons I got elected, I can tell you that.  We don't like his foreign policy.  And this is said by one of the guy's that got us into the war in Iraq, got us into the Middle East.  So, it's … We're doing a great job.  We're doing a great job for you.  We're light.  This is light.  Crazy Schiff.  Shifty Schiff.  He's a sick puppy.  He's a sick puppy.  But, you know what? Today you saw it, I hit my highest poll numbers since I got elected because the American people, and frankly, people all over the world, know it's a hoax.  They understand it.  They know it's a hoax, and we have a great party, the Republican party.  They know what's going on.  They know what's going on and they're going to treat us very fairly.  But, the Democrats are trying with the heroes of ICE … and they are heroes, I wouldn't want their job.  MS-13, they walk right into those nests … they call them a nest … and they start swinging.  You never saw anything like it.  I'll say, "You know what? Better you than me. " Let's see who would do good.  He'd do good.  That guy.  That guy would do good.  Most of you wouldn't do too good.  No.  I mean, these guys are tough guys and they love our country.  Who would do it? They're last administration's job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership.  I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's rampant theft of American jobs.  They don't like me too much.  Joe Biden's agenda is, "Made in China".  My agenda is, "Made in the USA".  That's the way.  For the last four years, I've been delivering for our incredible Hispanic… I love a Hispanic community.  Oh, there was a poll today.  Did you see it? Did you see the poll? Oh, this was a biggie.  They had a poll today that with the Hispanic voter, gotten more.  Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, crazy Nancy.  But I'll tell you.  And I said it last night, we had a great rally.  Last night, you saw that in a place that we're going to win.  We're going to win Minnesota.  Hasn't been won since 1972.  And they're all saying, "Well, we did give them back the big iron ore range. " It was, Obama took it away with the stroke of a pen.  He put everybody out of work.  We gave it back.  But I'll tell you what, we're typo.  Typo, they made a mistake.  What a stupid mistake.  Can you believe it? That guy's in big trouble.  What a stupid mistake. " And then I heard it a second time.  They did the same mistake.  That's what they're doing.  They're going to take God out of everything just like they want to knock down the statue of George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson.  That's never happening.  It's never happening.  A lot of these Democrats states, you see it, the churches are closed.  They don't want our churches killer, and that was the end of that.  They got the killer, they got the killer.  You know what I'm talking about.  And we were going to go into Seattle.  The next day, we're all set, all lined up, looking forward to it.  We just said, "We're doing it. " I mean, they actually took over a part of the city, and the mayor said, "This is going to be a summer of love," right? Where do these people come from? But we were all set to go in there, heard we were going in,  We're fighting.  You know, the Hispanic-owned, small businesses, they're great business people.  I know it from being in business.  They were very tough.  They were great business people and they get it.  They get it like very few people get it.  I'm also standing up for religious liberty.  Joe Biden would be… So Joe Biden would be a disaster for all communities, not just the Hispanic communities, pledged to wage attacks on Catholic organizations, like the Little Sisters of the Poor that we're helping.  And we're winning with them.  We're working over the years.  They're never going to replace the wheel and they're never going to replace the wall, and it's a high wall.  Illegal immigrants coming in, coming into our country illegally, very few of them are getting in right now.  Mexico has been terrific.  We have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our border and the numbers went down 87% from this year and this time last year.  And for the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild the cities in America.  We could rebuild our cities. way I look at it, when fake news CNN oops, there goes the camera off.  Red light just went off.  See, I can tell every one of them.  I know them by heart.  I know the operators.  I know the camera men.  They're okay.  They're all on our side by the way.  They're screamed at.  Get that camera off.  I don't want to do that.  Get that camera off, or it's going to be you job.  All right, I'm sorry.  Precedent.  But how bout MSDNC? They're to overthrow the election since the moment I won.  But the people here that are highly sophisticated, though, long before I won.  19 minutes after I took the oath of office, the horrible newspaper, fake, fake, fake Washington Post, declared, "The campaign to impeach President Trump has just begun. " At least they gave us 19 minutes.  Yesterday's vote by the radical Democrats is an attack on democracy itself.  But I'll tell you, the Republicans are really strong, the strongest I've ever seen them, the most unified I've ever seen them.  Right? The most unified  It had a big impact, but this is what you're buying with a guy like this.  This guy you're going to have Portland's all over this country.  And we can't allow that to happen.  "Not here," he says, "Not here in Nevada. " Well with your governor, it could happen here too, I can tell.  They want to abolish bail.  So they want to abolish cash bail like they did in New York.  They release people, the horrible criminals in New York, they release them, no cash bail.  And he calls law North Carolina. " You know what? I was right.  We won it.  We won it easily.  We won it easily.  So I just want to thank everybody.  Seriously.  This is a big… that was a big deal.  November 8th, that was a big deal.  Donald Trump has won the great state of North Carolina.  A big deal.  That was when you started to see the folks at a certain other convention, beautiful looking place.  One of the most beautiful venues I've ever seen, but I don't want any part Kentucky, think of that one.  Releasing violent criminals and aliens to terrorize innocent Kentucky families.  He wants sanctuary cities.  He hasn't learned what's happened.  We had a great election a couple of weeks ago in North Carolina.  We won two house seats.  We were supposed to lose, probably both of them.  We won them by a lot.  We won them by a lot.  And I think we won them because of the Second Amendment, because it's under assault from Democrats.  But I think we won also because of sanctuary cities. factories, steal our farms and ransack our communities.  Not anymore, not anymore, because we are defenseless no more because long last you have a President who puts America first.  Is that okay? The United States laws, listen to this number, and you know if it was wrong, the fake news would be all over me, and I've been saying it for three years.  The United States lost 60,000 factories and plants.  Think of that.  You wouldn't think that's possible because of stupid trade deals, because of bad leadership.  During the 16 years of the plan, and you choose the plan that's right for you.  We will strongly protect patients with preexisting conditions.  We will also protect your right to get the physician that you want.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up until the moment of birth.  This character in Virginia.  Did you see the Virginia governor? I mean, he gave a whole expose.  The baby is born, and then basically, they start talking to the mother.  The baby is born.  And there's no other wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon and built the most exceptional country in the history of the world.  And every day of my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us.  The future belongs to each and every one of you.  Right? With your help, your devotion and your drive…  Gee, it's too bad.  He did it right in the crescendo.  How do you top that? I just readied the big beautiful crescendo and this character's going back home.  It's all be very close.  They go, "The polls in Georgia have closed.  Donald Trump wins the state of Georgia. " You know why? Because we won by so much, that they can do it simultaneously by saying, "The polls closed, and he won. " We had many of them.  Right? And by the way, we're doing great.  I just had … Florida is a biggie, a good one.  And we are winning in Florida by a lot, so that's good.  A lot.  I'll tell you here, because you don't read about that stuff.  heritage so they can impose their new oppressive regime in its place.  They want to defund and dissolve our police departments, think of that.  00 o'clock in the morning and a very tough, I've used the word on occasion, hombre, a very tough hombre is breaking into the window of a young woman whose husband is away as a traveling salesman or whatever he may do.  And you call 911 and they say, "I'm sorry, this number's no longer working. " By the way, you have many cases like that, many, many, many.  Whether it's a at least you have hope, but it's beyond that because people have gone home.  You have to see some of the results have been incredible.  You saw one of the people the other day, right? That wonderful young lady that was so incredible and spoke so well.  She's a special person.  She really is a special person.  Thank you.  We'll talk to you.  Thank you very much.  To bring opportunities to our inner cities, I signed the groundbreaking criminal justice reform, prison reform, opportunity zones, permanent funding for historically black colleges and Mayor Bowser, Mayor Bowser there.  They were heading over to the Jefferson Memorial recently and they wanted to do damage to our great, beautiful Jefferson Memorial.  Not going to happen.  Don't worry about it.  We have it surrounded with very strong people.  The choice in 220 is very simple.  Do you want to bow before the left wing mob? Or do you want to stand up tall and proud as Americans.  And explain this to the NFL.  I like the NFL.  I like Roger Goodell, but I didn't like what he Sanders ever said.  I thought he'd take what Bernie did and move them somewhat to the right.  No, he took what Bernie said and they moved way further left.  It's the craziest thing I've ever seen.  But follow the original statements because that's what's going to happen.  And they cannot … you know solar, I like solar, but solar is very expensive and it doesn't have the power to fire up our massive plants.  We have big plants, including in this great state and you can't fire them up with this stuff.  You And the media are continuing with the deranged impeachment witch hunt.  This is one I never thought I'd be involved in.  The word impeachment… To me, it's a dirty word, not a good word.  Totally phony deal.  They know it.  Everybody knows it, and that's why we've never had greater support than we have right now.  It's true.  And if you think you have a lot of people in this room, all you have to do is go outside.  You'll see a lot more people trying to get in.  So if your experience, Hunter? What's your experience with energy? "I don't have any. " "Okay.  We'll pay you 183,000 a month and I will give you an upfront payment, Hunter, of $3 million.  Will that be satisfactory?" He goes, "Yes.  I'll take it. " Would anybody here not take that deal? Anybody? Please raise your head.  This is one guy, right, you must be a pretty rich guy.  If Biden's elected, China will own America.  Washington vultures like Biden and others ripped apart entire towns all across your state.  Michigan lost half of all an incredible agreement.  You remember I came and I'd always talk about how bad our trade deals are.  We did a brand new one with Korea.  So now we have South Korea, we just finished a big one, $40 billion with Japan.  On January 15, we're signing a monster, a big beautiful monster, $40 to $50 billion to our farmers.  Our farmers will be taking in, I keep saying go buy larger tractors.  Go buy larger tractors.  I said there's no way, I don't know if you know this story, my people wanted great people.  And I want to congratulate your governor because we had a spike and he knocked that spike out so fast.  I don't know.  Are you sure you even had a spike? Doug Ducey, a great governor, great man, and a somebody that won by about 16 or 17 points.  That's not so bad.  And I think you're more popular today.  What a job you've done.  Thank you very much, Doug.  A friend of mine and somebody who's a great fighter pilot, and I had a lot of people tell me history of our nation.  And ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come.  Together we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again, we will.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you, North Carolina.  Thank you. We brought you a lot of car plants, Michigan.  We brought you a lot of car plants.  You know that, right? Long time, it's been a long time since you had all these plants being built, ruin the suburbs.  And with that comes tremendous crime.  And I was talking the other day, "Darling, somebody just moved next door.  Who is it? It's a representative of Antifa. " She will look at her husband, say, "Darling, we're out of here.  We're out of here. " Antifa.  Remember they were trying to blame other people.  They don't like to mention the name Antifa.  I said, it's Antifa and I was right.  I was right.  They're bad people.  And you know what, they have to pay a price for  Just tell them I don't want the planes.  Don't put anything in writing, don't put it in writing, general. " "Why sir?" "Because I don't want to pay 250. " True.  You hear that Jim? Jim Inhofe, he's great.  You hear that Jim? You know that story.  He does a great job.  So here's what happened, the bottom line.  Boeing says, "No way, no way, no way. " The next week they say, "No way we're doing it. " The next week they said, "How about $5 billion?" I said, "No way.  employ tens of thousands of Americans across a range of industries, including American steel.  In 2018 India's JSW Steel announced that it would invest up to $500 million to revitalize a shuttered steel plant in the great state of Ohio.  And we welcome India's growing investments right here in the Lone Star State.  Nations around the world are investing in the United States because they know we have the best economy and the best workers in the world.  They have never invested in our country like they are today.  And we want to thank everybody It's not like the restaurants is the greatest business in the world.  It's a hard business.  New York is closed.  You're closed.  North Carolina's closed.  Michigan's … all Democrats.  Let me tell you, what's going to happen on November 4th.  They're going to announce their opening.  They're doing this for political reasons.  They are.  Right, John? They're doing it for political reasons because they want our numbers to look as bad as possible, going into November 3rd, election day.  Then as soon as the election's over with, win, lose take away your doctors, take away all of the good care that we fought, and we fought hard, and we're doing well and now we're doing better.  By the way, some time prior to the end of the year, we're putting in for a new middle income tax cut, a very big one.  But we're making health care better and much, much cheaper.  We've done a great job in running it and we've given you a lot of alternatives.  We are protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will, the Republican party, pre-existing conditions, we should ever have to go through what I've gone through either.  That should never happen.  What happened is a disgrace to our country.  No president should ever have to go through it.  And I'll tell you what, 99% of them would never have been able to take it.  They wouldn't have been able to take it.  But we won the great state of Michigan, and now we're doing really well, because we've moved a lot of car companies.  I tell Japan, sorry, big deficits with all these countries, we're changing it, but you've the most important thing is our military, and protecting our country, right? But have you listened to the so-called Washington elite, now why are they elite? We do better than they do, we're smarter than them.  We make more money, we have better houses, we have better everything, and then they say the elite.  That means you're the super elite.  I've always take offense when somebody said, "President Trump is tired of listening to the elite. " I said, "No, no, I'm more elite than them. " Right? I think so.  I mean, if we go years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years! Thank you.  But now he wants to surrender our country to the violent left wing mob.  You know that.  If Biden wins, China wins.  If Biden wins, the mob wins.  You see what's going on with all these democratic or I always say Democrat-run cities and states.  It's a disaster.  It's a disaster.  And we keep saying, "Let us bring in the troops. " Well, we did Pelosi beats them but she shakes and quivers and she's very soft.  But you know who the leader of your party is? All of you.  You.  You're the leader of your party.  Everybody believed me.  Then she went down.  Then she started coming up and then he went down.  It doesn't help me to do it a year-and-a-half before the election.  That's why, like with the Green New Deal, okay? I want to say great things about it.  Okay? I don't want to knock it and then say, "Oh, we're not have really hit you.  In 2017, I signed a historic executive order making government policy to buy American and hire American.  I'm watching this Biden and he's got his sign in front, "Buy American.  Oh, by American. " I've been saying that for like 20 years, right? Where the hell has this guy been? They were actually accusing him of plagiarism.  I also took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's rampant theft of Wisconsin jobs.  And it's all jobs, but you got hit particularly hard.  Biden has vowed to remove those Hampshire tried to replicate California's disastrous policies.  Last year, the Democrat controlled New Hampshire house blocked legislation that would have banned sanctuary cities in your state.  And by the way, you have a great governor, Chris Sununu.  He's on top of it.  He's on top of it.  And his father is a great guy.  His father didn't like me too much a few years ago.  Once I won, I'm telling you, he was so good.  He was as good.  He fought like hell for us, all of us.  It's a "President Trump is tied in Nevada, tied. " I don't think so.  The only way we're tied is if they screw around with the ballots, which they will do in my opinion.  Okay? We're not tied anywhere.  I asked some people that traveled with Obama.  I said, "Was it the same thing?" They say, "Not even a tiny fraction of what you have. " There's not even a fraction.  We have more enthusiasm.  We have more spirit than any campaign that anybody's ever seen.  It's true.  And that includes 2016, where the the only excuse.  Because I say to them, "Why would we do this? Why are we defending you? You're immensely wealthy, you compete with us on trade. " We have lousy trade deals that we are renegotiating many of them and ultimately all of them.  "Why are we protecting you, Mr.  President?" "Well, I don't know, I don't know. " But you know what their answer is? "Because you've always done it. " That's not a great answer.  So we're taking in billions and billions but I've got 100 billion dollars and the Secretary General of If you don't like your job, you find another one.  You tell the boss, I am getting out of here, I don't like this guy.  You go get a better job for more money.  Beshear doesn't represent you.  He represents the Washington swamp and he's backed by the same people trying to overthrow the last election.  Beshear supported crooked Hillary Clinton, and he's funded by the pro-abortion lobby and open borders fanatics.  Open borders, let everyone pour right in.  Let them all pour right in.  Beshear wants to bring sanctuary cities to China as a developing nation, you get all sorts of things that you would never get, advantages over the United States.  Well we have very strongly protested that.  They're not a developing nation, they're a very powerful developed nation, and you know what? They got to pay what everyone else has to pay.  Earlier this year I kept my promise to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania when we ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand new U. S. -Mexico-Canada agreement into law which is in effect now and really doing well.  Everyone said it will never seeing.  So we'll see what happens.  We're going to see what happens.  The lawyers feel very confident but we have to win those cases but what you have to do is send in your early ballot and then go and make sure that ballot is tabulated or counted, and if it's not counted, vote, and then they have the job, if it comes in late, and if it's not too late, they have the job of making sure that they don't count it.  But follow that ballot because these people, they'll be lost, they'll be gone, was never a fan of Brad Pitt, I will tell you that.  No, I thought he was a stiff.  He was a stiff, it's like a boring guy.  All of a sudden he wins the Academy Award, so fitting.  Their ratings aren't so good at the Academy Awards.  You know when that stopped? When they started attacking us, their ratings went right down the tubers.  I told somebody, the evening newscasts, they're terrible for conservative people and they're crooked, they're absolutely dishonest.  I said to one of the big broadcasters, I'm friendly with to $50 billion worth of purchase. " Make it 50, make it 50! Right, Jared? I said, "Jared, you better make it 50. " I want those farmers to come back, say, "Sir, sir, we can't do it.  We can't produce that much, sir, what are you doing to us?" I don't think that would ever happen? Do you think that would ever, I said they will figure a way.  He's going "Absolutely not. " Nah, I said, "Don't make it 20, make it 50. " The U. S. M. C. A.  is another colossal victory for matter, and that is no way for a woman to become the first president, that's for sure.  If a woman is going to become the first president of the United States, it can't be her.  That would rip our country apart.  This is not what people want and she comes in through the backdoor, this would not be what people want, especially because it's her.  Biden has called to end cash bail, you know that right, for vicious criminals? Meaning if you assault a copy or anybody else, you're right back on the street the next for three hours.  I said even I think it's too long.  You can't put it up for three.  You got leave a little bit like I want to come back next week.  But they had it on for three weeks.  We did fantastically with it.  Comcast did great.  NBC did great.  They wanted me to sign for another three years.  I said, no, I'm going to for president.  And that was actually the time when I knew I was going to run.  Because you know how they were paying Well, how did a guy with no experience do this? He said, "Very simple.  His father's vice president. " Is that what you want? And then Ukraine, $183,000 a month, and a $3 million upfront payment for him and his friends, think of this, with no experience and no job, and they said, do you know energy? It's an energy company that paid it.  Do you know energy? No, I don't.  I've not familiar with the subject.  Our great Congressman.  Right? How the hell does this happen? I think it will be brought up into 70%.  Big pharma does not like me too much.  They're taking ads about me that are so bad, but you get it, you understand it.  They're not too thrilled with me, including the rebates.  The rebates go back to you.  The rebates before went back to very rich people.  We will strongly protect Medicare and social security, and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.  And America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  That's man that should have been governor.  He should have been governor, what happened? I don't know what happened.  Nevada Attorney General, he's a great guy, Adam Laxalt.  And he's watching very closely.  And I'll tell you, Adam, please, he's a great lawyer, a great talent.  And he's going places but you have to watch.  He just said, our next governor.  I believe that's true.  You have my endorsement, but I will tell you this, Adam, if you could, because you're doing a fantastic job watching, watch all these votes coming in on went to $450 more.  Under President Barack Hussein Obama, under a period of eight years, it went to $975.  Under president Donald J.  Trump… Did you ever hear of him? In only three years, including regulation cuts and tax cuts… Because the other ones raise taxes.  We cut taxes by the record amount.  It went to $10, 000 per family.  A record.  A record.  That's why our consumer right now, our people, they're booming with cash.  That's one of the reasons our economy is doing so much better.  China had he'll be a great governor.  He loves your state, he'll be a great governor.  Thom is going to be a great, great senator for another six years, we need them both and I hope you're going to do well, Dan.  I know you're really getting up there, it's getting very close.  I'll be honest, if this governor that you have, I know him.  You know we had to take our convention away, he said you're allowed to have 10 people in the arena, 10, because it said one room 10, you're not supposed to have are doing the best they've ever done.  Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10% proportionately.  Under eight years of the Barack Hussein Obama administration.  Which administration loves spying on people's campaigns? By the way, by the way, could you imagine if it were the other way around and I spied on his campaign? What would these fake news people be doing? More than 300,000 people under Obama, 300,000 people left the workforce.  Under just three years of by administration, 3. 5 million people have joined the workforce and nobody O'Rourke who wants to give up guns is in charge of the second amendment.  The Dems will also eliminate private health insurance, ban fracking, that's not good, and American energy will be in a position of weakness like it's never been before.  And that's after we built the greatest energy country anywhere in the world by far.  And they want to appoint Supreme Court justices who will utterly obliterate your Constitution.  And you now see how important the Supreme Court is.  Think if we didn't have two justices, that I think have been very, very, education to our schools.  We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.  And we will live by the timeless words in our national motto, in God, we trust.  For years you had a president who apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the people of Pennsylvania, like nobody has ever stood up before.  So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and your coworkers, and get out and vote And early over the place, but a lot of them now are filled up because of us.  They filled up.  When did they fill up? Over the last three-and-a-half years.  I proudly signed a brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement into law, which will bring hundreds of thousands of high paying jobs back to the United States, and it's already doing.  We invested $2. 5 trillion in the US military.  Defense spending in North Carolina has soared by more than $1 billion a year.  Congratulations, good job.  We launched the first new branch of the US Armed It's a total phony magazine.  But he was on the cover of the magazine.  And he said, "I was born to run for president. " He was born for it.  I was born.  Anybody that gets that character.  That was when he was doing well.  Since then he's cratered.  Ever since he made that statement, he's looked very bad.  But take a look at what he says about guns, and he got put in charge of guns.  So I guess Biden pretty soon he's going to be coming out saying, "No, time today.  A general came into my office in my first few weeks, you remember? It was a little dangerous out there.  President Obama left us with a few beauties, right? And I said to this general, "You better be prepared, because this is looking like it could really be conflict. " And he looked at me and he goes, "Sir, we have very little ammunition. " I said, "Say it again. " And I want to tell you the words, very little, he didn't use because it was less than that.  And I said, "I never " Then Pelosi would say, "We demand that you build a wall. " These people are terrible.  Crazy Nancy, crazy as a bedbug.  She's crazy as a bedbug.  She decided to make a nice little stop-in at the beauty parlor, how did that work out? Not too good, it didn't work out too well.  Can you imagine? The owner of the beauty parlor is a MAGA lady, she loves Trump.  Can you believe it? I don't know what it is but I think if I owned a beauty parlor, I had a customer, I'm not really good, secure border.  And the president of Mexico has been terrific.  We right now have 27,000 soldiers from Mexico guarding our border, free of charge.  We stopped asylum fraud, and we've deported 20,000 gang members and over a half a million criminal illegal aliens of the worst kind.  We're enforcing the clear requirement that newcomers to our country must be financially self-sufficient and not reliant on welfare.  They have to sign a document.  We invested $2.  5 trillion in the US military, including major contracts to build new warships that helped save With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.  We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the U. S. A.  We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America.  Nobody knew that.  It could've been done long before I got United States auto industry, the Transpacific Partnership.  It was a disaster.  That was going to be worse than NAFTA.  NAFTA, I always say, the world's worst deal.  I think that would have been worse.  It would have taken the car industry.  It would have taken many of your industries.  That was a setup for the United States to get fleeced.  … That's going to include, because we take care of our great auto workers of Toledo, the home of Jeep.  How good is Jeep? I've taken the toughest-ever action against China's self-made titans of American industry, from Andrew Carnegie to Milton Hershey.  I love Hershey.  I love Hershey.  And Henry J.  Heinz.  Pennsylvania is the place where strong American workers mine the coal, work the railroads, and forge the steel that made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world, and we are making it even greater every single day.  It's greater than ever before.  And proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to car business?" We have 17 companies now coming back in.  "Who is that woman?" And it was Ronna.  We put her in charge of the Republican National Committee.  The job that she has done is incredible.  Thank you.  The same with another man, our campaign manager.  He started off as a computer genius, and remember when they used to say that the Hillary Clinton campaign is highly sophisticated, highly… She did a lot of bad things folks.  33,000 emails deleted after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress, 33,000.  Remember she of the globe.  They decimated American manufacturing to promote economic growth in foreign countries.  Tell me, how is that good.  They try and convince you it's good.  I was a very good student.  I'm a very like, we're all smart.  We sit back, we listen, and I say, these people are, something wrong with them.  Only in Kentucky can somebody be so precise.  You're right about, you are right about that.  They deployed our military to protect immensely wealthy nations, subsidizing their welfare states with your money.  The money we done by Soleimani.  That's what he loved.  He loved the roadside bomb.  That's what he loved.  Thousands and thousands and thousands in Iraq, in Afghanistan, roadside bombs.  He was the king of the roadside bombs.  Great percentages of people don't have legs right now and arms because of this son of a bitch.  Now the Democrats should be outraged by Soleimani's evil crimes, not that decision to end his wretched life.  They're saying, "Well, he was a general.  He was this.  He was that. " You know what? Number one, they're going to get fixed up. " Right? So smart.  But you see, I said I was smart and they looked back at me and they said, "Sir, we've known about that concept for 45 years.  We just can't get it approved. " But I got it approved.  And I got it approved about 11 months ago.  And the VA is doing fantastically well.  Our veterans are doing great.  That was a big thing.  That was a big thing.  We also got accountability.  Where people could mistreat our veterans, do whatever normal rules I will be out in 2024 so we may have to go for an extra term. " Oh, they're going crazy.  Tomorrow, you will see headlines, Trump wants an extra term, I told you, I told you.  He wants an extra term, ladies and gentlemen.  We told you, we told you he's a dictator, we told you.  No, no, I'm only kidding, I'm only kidding.  But we actually have the World Cup, it's the biggest sporting event in the world and we got it.  And that's where we're working it also with which many people like.  The plans of every Democrat running for President would demolish the economy of New Jersey, where half a million new New Jersey workers are employed at some of the best and most innovative health care employment companies.  We have them working at the companies, and we have people getting great health care.  It's been so long.  It's finally working and they want to destroy it.  The Republican party will never let it happen.  We are saving your health care while the Democrats are trying to take away your health care, have to have verification to do that.  Now, here's the good news.  We're in front of a court.  And hopefully, the court's going to rule, because this is the greatest scam in the history of presidential politics.  These people are … they've gone crazy.  Biden and his party of liberal hypocrites want to lock law-abiding Americans in their homes, which is what they're doing.  And they want to keep them out of church.  They really do.  They're fighting God, they're fighting guns, and they're fighting oil.  Think of it.  I Times, it was like what you get thrown in your face at a supermarket.  It was a thing.  It just flew away.  There was nothing.  Now it's doing very well.  But you know what? Someday we won't be here.  When we're not, those papers are in big trouble.  But this thing was a dead newspaper.  But I was watching and they had an article this weekend about people that spent their own money and how they're doing.  They have Mini Mike has spent $411 million.  It's a question mark, how's of hours later I guess, whatever it is, it's a short time later, I get into the car, the press sees me get into the car.  On my way home, I get a call from my wife, the First Lady who's very popular.  Do we like our First Lady? Very popular, great person, great woman.  She said, "Darling, are you okay?" I go, "Why do you ask?" She said, "They're reporting that you had a heart attack. " Now you have to understand I'm driving in a car, which is about what? Six cars in front of I said, well, I've had a couple of meals at McDonald's, et cetera over the years, right? Wendy's, a friend of mine owns Wendy's, I'll give it a plug, right? Burger King.  So they want to ban straws.  I said, "Oh really? What about the carton? What about the plate? What about the knives and the spoons that are plastic?" Oh, they're okay, but the straws we got ban.  Has anybody ever tried, seriously, the new straw, it's made out of paper, right? It disintegrates as you drink and if you have a nice tie like this he'll always be my boy, you know what I mean? Right? He's my boy.  He's my little six foot six boy, Eric Trump.  And the parents understand that, right? They may be big and strong and older.  To a parent, a child is always their boy or always their little beautiful girl, and I know that's probably politically incorrect.  They'll say, "It was terrible what he said about women.  Terrible. " But they're our boy and they're our girl, and it doesn't matter how old we get and how old they get, is that a  I could have settled the strike before the election.  I wanted to save $2 total.  And he wasn't too good.  He didn't do too good.  But we almost won this state despite… I had a big strike.  Had thousands and thousands of union guys.  They had it, look, they wanted, wanted to show us.  But I think that the unions are really with us and the unions have been with us.  They're Teamsters, so many of the unions.  Because I'm for the working man and woman, whether you're union or know President Xi of China very well, President Putin of Russia, Kim Jong-un.  By the way, what happened to the war? I thought we was going to war with Kim Jong-un.  Where's the war? Where's the war? Oh, I see.  Oh, I see.  It never happened, did it? Never happened, did it? Well, maybe some day, could happen.  No, remember? "Trump is going to be … " You know my personality, right? "Trump is going to be a war at within the first week after he wins. " Where's the war. ?In fact, the peace relations with Israel.  Nobody thought this was possible.  In fact, you didn't hear it because they don't report this.  They just don't want to report it, but they nominated your President twice last week on two different subjects for a Nobel Prize.  But the fake news media didn't cover it, so that's it.  Biden got it.  Remember… Well, okay.  Remember when our great President, right? Barack Hussein Obama, he got it.  Right? Like immediately.  And they said, "Why did you get it?" And he was unable to explain, do you remember? different president, and they did the same job, they'd say it was one of the greatest jobs they've ever seen.  But take a look at what they say about the way they handled the Swine flu.  It was a disaster.  It was incompetent.  They called themselves incompetent.  They call, and now they're coming in like, well, we would have done this and Biden by the way, was against, you remember, xenophobic, racist, because I closed down China.  Then two months later, two and a half, three, and Nancy Pelosi was having dances in Chinatown, lesson plan for students called 1776 Commission.  We're going to teach our children the truth about America, that we're the most exceptional nation ever to exist and we're getting better every single day.  Sleepy Joe Biden is wholly owned and controlled by the far left.  He even opposed sending the National Guard into a place called Kenosha, did you ever hear of Kenosha? How about that, did we do a good job? I wish we did it a little sooner but we finally got your governor's okay.  We have to do that if … We got the subject of immigration, we've been fighting for that.  Under my administration we achieved the most secure border in American history.  We ended catch and release, stopped asylum fraud, and we've deported 20,000 gang members and we get them out and we get them out fast.  Thank you ICE.  ICE and Border Patrol.  ICE and Border Patrol.  They don't like ICE because ICE is, they're tough.  You got to be tough in that job by the way.  Anybody up here like to work in ICE? I don't think so.  Let's see, a smattering of people. " They were in the middle of an airport that nobody ever heard of.  Thousands.  If those people, come on, bring them over.  What the hell, at this point, might as well, let them come on over.  Come on over.  You got thousands of people behind these people.  I would imagine the sight lines aren't too good.  You have stands in front.  Okay.  So one more time.  Who would rather have a man on the Supreme Court? Who would have a woman on the Supreme.  month, we signed a ground breaking trade agreement.  Probably the biggest agreement of any kind ever signed with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property and boost American exports by a lot.  China will be buying $250 billion worth of goods from us now and 50 billion from our farmers.  My guys wanted 16, I said, "make it 50. " My guys wanted 16, they got China up to 20.  I said, "Nope.  Got to make it 50," and then I said to China, "you got a billion and a half people. I know some of the worst people in the world, not one person do I know that would say that, standing on top of graves, of heroes, really, not one person.  So I will tell you this, so now we can play it like it is.  Let's face it, Joe is shot.  Let's face it, okay? He's shot.  So not that he has anything to do because he won't know what's happening.  He'll just be locked up in a room someplace, and the radical left is going to be running our country.  Four more come you didn't tell us about this?" You'll have peace in the Middle East.  And yet we're moving our trips out.  It's pretty amazing, actually.  We'll get no credit for it, but that's all right.  Remember that Kaitlan.  Cover that properly, Kaitlan.  We like Kaitlan.  Together, we've spent the last four years cleaning up 47 years of Biden disasters.  Joe Biden has spent his entire career on the wrong side of history.  He supported NAFTA.  China's entry.  He's done so many things.  This man, if you look at that I shouldn't be doing that to China.  I shouldn't be banning China because I was xenophobic.  And it's just unbelievable.  And now they will say anything.  It's called disinformation.  They will make up a lie, they will make up a story, and they go with it, it makes no difference whether or not it's show, and they'll take ads.  It's the worst group of people.  He's surrounded by bad people, dishonest people, but they're very smart.  He's not smart.  They keep him from talking.  It's actually, if he wins, said, "That's okay," because I love this unbelievable energy in this crowd.  But you know what? Honestly, there's tremendous energy in our nation.  There's tremendous energy in our nation.  Greatest nation in the world.  Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings for eight straight months in a row, which will soon be a record.  Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring.  The month of January saw the fewest illegal border crossings in two years.  And we've ended catch and release, a horrible Democrat policy Little did I know that he'd be working with us, and he's really working well.  He's smart, he's tough.  Lawrence Tabas.  Come on up, Lawrence.  Come on up.  Also with us tonight, Pennsylvania Trump Victory Chairwoman, Bernie.  You know this, right? You know this person.  Comfort.  Do you know who that is? Do you know who that is? Everybody knows who that is.  National Committeeman Bob Asher, RNC Co-chairman Tommy Hicks has been incredible, and my friend David Urban.  David.  So I just want to thank, this is an or to be a justice, right? A justice of the Supreme Court.  I said, "I mean, what am I going to do? How am I going to solve that problem?" But, I was in politics, never.  Don't forget, when I ran, they said, "No, he's inexperienced. " I ran against some very talented people.  Some of whom are very good friends of mine.  Some of whom I don't like too much.  When I don't like somebody, it last for a long time, but I said, "Well, how do we solve that problem?" I don't know. I'll be home in 15 minutes, darling.  Thank you for caring. " It's always nice.  It's always nice.  She sounded relieved.  That's good.  When your wife sounds relieved.  But she said, " I wonder how that happened.  Why did they do that?" Because they're fake news.  So I go in and that rumor lasted for a little while, like a day or two.  It lasted for a little while, no matter what I did.  I'm in the same motorcade, I go in, and I go out.  They know I'm is at an all time high, just for one second, president Bush, eight years, $450.  President Barack Hussein Obama, eight years, eight years, $975.  President Donald John Trump, two and a half years, not three, because the numbers were taken at two and a half, now it's actually higher.  Two and a half years, including the tax cuts which are massive, and including all of the regulatory cuts, and the other things you have gotten, $10,000.  Think of it.  You have eight years, 450.  Eight years, 975.  Two and a half years, think opportunities zones.  I worked with Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, what a great guy.  He has passed criminal justice reform, prison reform, delivered permanent funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities that Obama never did, or couldn't do.  And Biden.  I call it Obiden.  O Biden.  It's too long to say Obama and Biden, just call it Obiden.  And before the China virus, we achieved the lowest African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment rates ever recorded.  And we're heading back to that level rapidly.  Biden spent the last 47 never know.  They give him a big fat shot in the ass, and he comes out, and for two hours, he's better than ever before.  Problem is what happens after the … No, we're going to ask for a drug test, we are.  I'd like to have a drug test.  Both of us.  I'll take it, he'll take.  Because I watched him into debates with all those people, those Democrats.  The one who treated him worst was Kamala.  Actually, also, she was the one that treated, you know that, she was the To win what? We should have never been in the Middle East, and we're bringing them back.  We're bringing them back, just so you know, we're bringing them back from Iraq.  We're down to 2,000 soldiers in Iraq.  And in Syria, we're all back, we're all finished, except for one thing.  If it's okay with you.  I decided to keep the oil.  We took the oil, we kept it.  And we'll always support America's incredible military families.  So thank you very much.  Thank you, darling.  Really good.  Okay.  ourselves.  Biden.  Biden didn't agree, he didn't, they just told him what's happening.  They said, "Listen, you're against fracking but now you have to be in favor of fracking because you lucked out.  Elizabeth Warren decided not to drop out and when she stayed," Pocahontas, you know Pocahontas? Did anybody ever hear of her? She's another great one.  Pocahontas.  I said to her a long time ago, I've got more Indian blood in me than you do and I have none, I have none.  Sadly.  I'd love a little bit of it, allowed to say it.  When the virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II, we're delivering life-saving therapies, we've achieved among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country, anywhere in the world.  You don't hear this.  Europe's excess mortality rate is 24% higher than the US, and despite their very punitive lockdowns, they're once again, seeing very large spikes in cases, unfortunately.  The United States has experienced the smallest contraction of any major Western nation and the fastest recovery by far.  Who's going to do well? And there's a decades, Minnesota.  Greg Stanton.  By the way, I keep hearing how much enthusiasm is in the radical left.  I don't think they have enthusiasm.  They're just fighting with each other.  We have all of the enthusiasm.  He goes home now to mommy, and he gets reprimanded, and that's the end.  Sorry mommy.  Sorry mom.  Didn't mean to embarrass your mom.  But it's true, we have the enthusiasm folks.  Look at this.  Look at this.  And by the way, thousands and thousands of people outside and people that Democrats, they're partners.  It's a partnership.  How about on the newscast, like the word "manufactured," it's manu… And every newscast, "Tonight, in a manufactured deal along the border …" The word's never been used … All of a sudden every newscast is using it.  It's a talking point given to these fakers by the Democrats.  So they know they can't win the 2020 election, so they're pursuing the insane impeachment witch hunt.  I've been going through it now for more time than I've been in office.  Because, like Strzok with his insurance deal, this away with it.  But we keep our promises that we work hard and our economy is great.  The last month, we ended the NAFTA… Look, you saw it.  NAFTA catastrophe.  That's what it was.  We ended that catastrophe.  Again, I really ran because of NAFTA.  I said, "How stupid. " All over the place.  In your state, but you go to New England, empty factories, empty buildings.  Still you have empty buildings.  We lost so much.  We lost 60,000 factories and plants.  I signed that brand new, beautiful of our country.  This movement has never taken place.  Nothing like it ever.  And the fake news can attest to it, because if they thought I was saying the wrong thing, it'd be out there immediately.  It'd be all over the place.  It'd be all over the place.  Trump exaggerates.  That's terrible what he says.  There has never been a movement like this, and it began very early.  It began in 2016 with that wonderful, beautiful night.  You remember that, right? That beautiful night in November.  And we're going see him meeting successfully with Kim Jong-un.  I don't see him dealing, and nobody has been tougher with Russia than Donald Trump.  I don't know see him dealing with Vladimir Putin.  And we have good relationships with them and many others, except now we're no longer the suckers.  Like with NATO, we protect Europe.  We spent hundreds of billions of dollars and they're not paying their fair share.  So last year I went and said, "Folks, sorry, you got to pay your fair share. " 16 years was going like this? The contribution, and did you ever see a man that likes a mask as much as him? And then he makes a speech and he always has it, not always, but a lot of times he has it hanging down.  Because you know what? It gives him a feeling of security.  If I were a psychiatrist, right? I'd say, "This guy's got some big issues. " Hanging down.  Hanging down.  Congressman, give me your mask.  I want to have it hanging from my ear.  I don't want to touch your damn mask.  Mike I'll never touch They do stories … In my entire life, I had a few stories on the front page of the New York Times, and now if I have three or four a day, it's like, "Why are they not covering me anymore?" And they're all bad.  They can take what we did two weeks ago with the number one terrorist in the world, and they make it look as bad as possible.  In fact, I love dogs, but they gave the dog full credit.  They didn't give me any credit.  That's okay.  The dog got the rioters are voting for Biden and the law enforcement people, you know, we have it from everybody.  We just got the sheriffs in Florida, all of them, all of them.  We got Ohio.  We got Texas.  We got North Carolina.  We got South Carolina.  We got everybody.  I see Rick Perry right there.  Rick Perry, what are you doing here, Rick? Rick Perry, one of the greats.  But they're all voting for me.  This election is about safety and this election is about jobs.  Today, I'm delighted to accept but I'm not going to get them anyway.  What the hell difference does that make? I don't want them.  I don't want them.  I got to do what's right.  You know, we're here for a short period of time.  Even if it's a long period, it's still a short period and we've got to do so.  Price transparency is a big deal.  He said it's bigger than healthcare.  Think of that.  Bigger than healthcare.  So let's see what happens.  But that'll kick in.  Unfortunately, that kicks in after home and die.  Now they have the right to use our drugs before they're approved.  Think of that.  Before they're approved.  And we're very importantly combating the opioid epidemic.  Drug overdose deaths.  The overdose deaths have declined for the first time in 34 years, and life expectancy is rising again in our nation.  We've launched bold new initiatives combating kidney disease and Alzheimer's disease.  We're making tremendous progress, and we're pursuing new advances in neo-medical research.  Think of that, neonatal research, the numbers are incredible.  What's happened is incredible, to I have to make a decision.  It's a big decision.  Do we give up the greatest theme, phrase, logo, whatever you want to call it, in the history of politics, risky, for a brand new one because make America great again.  We're really sort of there, and we have a little time left.  And now we have a group of socialists or communists, could be.  They're not far away.  The fake news will hit me on that.  How dare he say that? But they're not far away, right? They're not far away.  your social security.  And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions, always.  America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  Very exciting.  And I will reopen NASA.  That place was gone.  They had grass growing out of the runways, you had to see it.  Now it's the number one space center in the world by far.  You see what's going on.  We will restore patriotic education to our schools.  Oh, you know what can do.  Everything I can do, we will do for you.  And I really believe you're going to make it.  You're running against somebody that is just ridiculous, folks.  It's ridiculous.  Don't do it.  Also with us are some other great candidates and people that are going to do a tremendous job, helping our Congressman.  Paul Junge.  Where's Paul Junge? Paul, thank you.  Good luck.  I heard you're doing well, Paul.  Paul Junge.  Lisa McClain.  Lisa? Great job.  It's going well.  And Eric Essahki.  Thank you.  No, he was very good, very positive statement, but days ago, Biden reiterated his pledge to require net zero carbon emissions.  That's basically saying, you know what that is? There'll be no more oil.  There'll be no more gas.  There'll be no more nothing.  There'll be no more industry.  There'll be no more country.  That's what it's like really.  That would instantly shut down all fracking and all mining immediately in Pennsylvania sending your jobs overseas, sending your money to somebody else, not you.  I'll keep your jobs in  He doesn't even know what they're talking about.  And he used the word, there was no "blackmail" during this call.  He used that term.  So in theory, that should be the end of it.  Think of it, a president of the United States who's made our economy, with a lot of help from all of you, frankly, but from Mike and from some of our great senators and some of our great people that we have with us, we made this the strongest economy in our history.  We've rebuilt our military.  We're taking is better.  Was that Jake Tapper? I like Jake Tapper, was that … I don't think he was doing … I don't think he likes me too much, but that's okay.  They said what's better, they said, what's better.  He goes, "USMCA.  Well, that's the deal that Trump made.  Oh, it is? Oh. " That's a great deal we made.  We took the horrible NAFTA deal.  We got rid of the NAFTA.  We got rid of TPP.  We got rid of that terrible, terrible South Korea deal, which Hillary Clinton said, Now they say, I see CNN, they said, "Fake news has reported," no, no, you are fake news, that fake news is you.  You are fake news.  They turned the term around.  They are reporting that fake news is reporting their fake news.  Left wing politicians even support deadly sanctuary cities that release criminal aliens directly into American communities.  We don't want them.  In New York City, the Mayor's Sanctuary Policy recently forced the release of a- … the mayor's sanctuary policy recently forced the release of a criminal illegal alien charged with assault. us.  He's been with us.  Rick Harrison of the world famous gold and silver pawn shop.  Rick Harrison.  You better win, Michael.  Otherwise, that's the last time I'm introducing you like that.  I hear we're up.  I hear we're doing nicely.  I hear we're doing great.  And by the way, the union, I have a lot of respect for that union.  Last time, I had a strike in my building during the election.  It's the only reason we would have won this state.  Brilliantly to save three cents. we should have a new campaign.  Let's make a t-shirt, fill the seat.  Okay? My people are so good, tomorrow, it'll be all over the place.  That's a good idea.  That's a good idea.  Fill the seat.  Okay watch this, so good tomorrow you'll see them all over the place, fill the seat.  I don't know how the hell they do it, but they get it done fast.  You remember I said, where's Hunter? Where's Hunter? The next day, it was like one of the biggest selling t- shirts where is Hunter? of the other candidates, meaning the Democrats, put together and multiplied times fave.  And the fake news, these guys will never report that.  They'll never report it.  They don't even like showing the crowd.  They always show my face.  They never show the crowd.  But you know what? The people can hear the crowd.  The people can hear the crowd.  They know.  That is not the sound of 200 people.  One of their prime candidates today, they worked a big deal.  They had exactly 104 people, and the fake That was taken away.  New Hampshire was taken away.  It was taken away from us, but we should've.  We did great in New Hampshire.  We should've won New Hampshire, but that's okay.  I'm not holding it against you because it was not your fault.  But we had a woman in Michigan and I said, "When it came time to choosing the head of the Republican National Committee," I said, "Who the hell is that woman up in Michigan that got me to keep coming there and explaining that we can't continue to lose our a hit, but that's okay.  The wall is a tall sucker, you don't want to get up to the top.  They look down, they say, "Oh, ye, ye, how do we get down off this?" It's tall and it's strong and it's great.  And we appreciate, because Mexico has been working with us very closely.  They have right now 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our Southern border making sure that people don't come into our country.  I want to thank the president of Mexico.  Very helpful.  So I made this list of potential justices prices and everything had dropped, but he said, "I wonder what happened?" And I did it all.  I'll be so angry at New Hampshire.  I'll never speak to you again.  Now, all these things, what we're doing with drugs, we instituted a favored nations laws.  We instituted favored nations.  That's going to drop your prices 50, 60, 70%.  And I'm the only president in 51 years, last year, drug prices went down a little, not much, but they went down the first time in 51 years.  Favored nations could drop at 50, 60, despite the phony polls that you see all the time, their phony polls.  You know, polls are no different.  Remember I always used to talk about polls, I know polls very well.  Polls are no different than crooked writers.  They're crooked polls.  They're crooked polls.  No different.  Boy, that's a lot of media.  Look back there.  That's a lot of media.  They are so dishonest.  And frankly, they are so bad for our country.  They are so bad.  And they could be so good for our country. them went bad.  They fell way short.  But 12 of them hit.  And I said, man, they are quick.  They knew immediately what they were, and they saw those missiles hit.  I said, how bad is it? It hit a base.  And an hour later or so, we get a call back.  I said, how many killed? Nobody, sir.  I said, how many hurt? They said, nobody, sir.  And I said, they just saved themselves a trillion dollars and a lot of lives.  That's true.  A trillion, not a that motto.  Live free or die.  These courageous Americans tamed the wilderness, braved the elements, changed the hills, fought the battles, and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the Earth and we are making it greater.  Every single day, greater than ever before.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  That's what this is all about.  With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to in the world.  And you don't hear that from the fake news.  Europe's excess mortality rate is 24% higher.  And these are statistics that come from people that do this stuff, right? This is not done by my secretary.  24% higher than the United States and despite their punitive lockdowns, they're once again seeing a spike.  They're seeing a big spike in cases over there.  They did the heavy lockdowns, just like you're doing right here.  And they're seeing a spike.  And there's no reason for that.  The United States has a group called the Wildcats.  You ever hear the Kentucky Wildcats? By the way, they play at a very big arena.  This place.  Look at this.  Hello, up there? This is incredible.  With thousands of proud, hardworking, freedom-loving American patriots, which is what you are.  What you are.  Tomorrow, the people of Kentucky will head to the polls and you will vote to reelect your terrific Republican governor, Matt Bevin.  He's done a fantastic job.  He's done a fantastic job.  And we're sending a signal by doing that to the airport that I don't own, and they happen to go to a hotel, he's enriching himself, like 20 people, I'm going to lose billions of dollars, and that's okay.  I expected to do that when I did it.  I didn't know what would happen if I lost.  Can you imagine? Supposing I lost, and we would have had the same basic rhetoric.  I mean, winning was great.  Supposing, you know, I'm doing all the things.  I'm telling you all the same sort of things.  Supposing I didn't make it.  I'd have to from the beginning, we had the chemistry, we had that good chemistry… Oh, sit down.  It's 122 degrees in this place.  And we have our great Governor.  Governor, can we make it a little bit, just a little.  This is like a test.  You think Joe Biden could do this? I don't think so.  So I'm thrilled to be in Yuma, Arizona To proudly accept the endorsement of the National Border Patrol Council, that's a big deal.  And they are great friends of mine.  And we're building the wall.  Next week,  Socialism's no good.  Communism's really bad.  But get out there on November 3rd and let's show him your stuff and show them the stuff of all of us.  So, in concluding, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end the reliance, this ridiculous, crazy reliance on China, and all of these far away lands once and for all.  We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States.  We will hire more police.  And by the way, thank you, went from being the toughest critic to the best there is.  So I want to say hello to your father, okay Chris? You'll tell him.  Great guy.  What a family.  What a family.  Thank you for Chris.  New Hampshire Senate Republican leader, Chuck Morse.  Chuck.  Thanks, Chuck.  New Hampshire House Republican leader, Dick Hinch.  Thank you, Dick.  Thank you, Dick.  Great job.  A man who was with me right from the beginning.  In fact, he had a meeting at his house.  His house has never of our national motto, "In God we trust. " We stand on the shoulders of generations of Pennsylvania patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation.  Pennsylvania's the place where our founding fathers declared American independence, where the army weathered its brutal winter at Valley Forge, and where General George Washington led his men across the Delaware on Christmas night.  They used the password.  You know what the password was? Victory or death.  Victory or death.  How incredible is that? Victory or death.  Pennsylvania is the state that gave us when you have the weight of an entire party and they control the House, not easy.  We did it and frankly we were building the wall through the help of the military, the Army Corps of Engineers anyway, but you know what? Now we actually have the money and it's going up very rapidly.  In all due respect to Mexico, we like Mexico very much, and we've gotten along great with Mexico, and the President's a friend of mine, and I think he's doing a fantastic job.  It's a tough situation.  But Mexico is in fact, And we shouldn't say this is some kind of a rally from now on.  It's called a protest.  We are protesters.  We're going to call on our rallies that because you see a lot of these, let's call them blue states, we want to be nice.  We're going to call it a protest against stupidity.  So we are going to have protests against stupidity.  And Pennsylvania.  Look what they're doing in Pennsylvania.  A great state, that's actually something very special is going to happen here, in Pennsylvania.  That's a commonwealth.  States Congress, right? And she and her lawyer deleted 33,000 emails after she got a United States subpoena.  And you say, "Why isn't she guilty of a major crime?" Right? And then she took her telephones and she smashed them with a hammer.  Right? And then she took the other ones, and she deleted them.  And now the Mueller scam, these people, the worst people.  I have a friend, a very smart guy, very streetwise guy.  He said, "You have to be the most honest guy in the world to go through three years of them.  So we keep them here, we have no choice.  If the left gains power, they will abolish … Republicans will always … they're going to abolish.  Republicans will always stand with these incredible heroes of ICE and border patrol.  You have to see these ICE people.  They go into a den of MS13, and they call them a den, a nest, where you have these guys that are vicious, vicious gang members.  And they go in there, they just start swinging.  It's the craziest thing, they love it.  Now, who wants and no longer have any troops in the area.  We don't have any troops.  The troops have been pulled out.  Where Turkey is carrying out now a very tough campaign against the Kurds, get them out.  So Turkey is right now waging a very tough campaign against the Kurds.  We got along with the Kurds, and we helped the Kurds.  And don't forget they're also fighting for their land.  You know that.  But they're fighting.  So we have three choices.  You're ready? Here are the three choices.  We don't but you're not going to have to worry about it because it's not going to happen.  A woman who really distinguished herself, she became a star.  She became a star overnight.  There was nobody tougher.  There was nobody smarter.  There was nobody better than Debbie Lesko.  Great job, Debbie.  Thank you.  We want her on our side.  Right fellas? We got to have her on our side.  Also, thanks to Arizona Republican party chairman, I knew this was going to happen.  I knew that she was going.  She people, women that are extraordinary in every way.  I mean, honestly, it could be anyone.  I mean, we're going to be announcing it on Friday or Saturday.  Again, they say it's the most important thing and think of it.  So in a single term, single term, by the end of our term, we will have nominated and had confirmed I think it'll end up being over 300 federal judges and hopefully three Supreme Court justices.  Think of that.  Three.  Some presidents, they never get any.  They last a long time, a lot sir.  You can't come back from 17 points, sir.  It's too much. " I said, "But you know, I really like the guy.  I think he's great.  Let's give it a shot. " They say, "Sir, if you lose, they will never, ever … It'll be much worse. " I said, "Let me tell you, I know them very well.  Whether I help him or don't help him, it's going to be the same.  It's going to be a disaster.  So let's help him. " And we campaigned, and we worked hard, right? other things.  So now it's just different, and now it's working the other way, and tariffs are a beautiful thing when you know how to use them, they're a beautiful thing.  And I want China to do well, and I hope they do well, but they've had now the worst year in 57 years.  I wonder why? I wonder why? And hopefully it'll all work out.  We'll see.  We're going to be talking next week.  We're talking now.  They're going to be coming to the United States in two or three weeks, and  Now let's see what happens.  But we have them cold, they spied on our campaign.  It's our campaign And if you want to save America, you have to go out, get out and vote.  This is the most important election.  In just three and a half years we've secured America's borders, which makes them very unhappy, rebuilt the awesome power of the US military, we built the military.  It was totally depleted when I took over.  We built a military.  Two and a half trillion dollars we spent, all made in the all benefits, and he opposed our travel ban, which is so important that we won in the United States Supreme Court to keep terrorists the hell out of our country.  And Jim Hood went to the United Nations and opposed your right to self-defense.  If you don't want a far left Democrat running Mississippi … Wait a minute.  How's this guy? I can't believe this is a competitive race.  It's embarrassing.  I'm talking to Mississippi.  I'm talking to Mississippi.  I can't believe it.  I don't think that he's going to be the I would say that's pretty easy, and he choked.  He choked.  And then he said, "Ah, yeah, I'm sorry I ran out of time.  I ran out of time" He ran out of time.  And then you have a young guy, Buttigieg, Buttigieg.  They're saying how to say his name, Buut-ih-jij.  He's a beauty.  He runs a failed city.  His city is doing so badly.  Mike Pence was the governor of that state.  I said, "How was he as the mayor?" Mike is one of the nicest human beings you'll Republicans stand for law and order, and we stand for justice.  We stand for justice.  We side with law enforcement and with law-abiding Americans, not ruthless gang members and not violent criminals, aliens that come into our country illegally.  They take our payments.  Payments.  Some of these people with these crazy laws that you have.  Look at what's going on in California.  They do better than our great veterans.  They do better than citizens of our country.  And they advertise, "We will take you.  We will take care of you. We stripped federal grant funding from deadly sanctuary cities.  They want to have a sanctuary city, not going to be like the old days.  We canceled the lawless policies of the previous administration and empowered border agents and ICE officers to do their jobs and proudly enforce the laws of the United States of America.  We removed 20,000 gang members, including 4,500, MS-13.  That's pretty good.  Who would ever think there's that many? I entered into three landmark agreements with Honduras and El Salvador and Guatemala to end the abuse of the asylum system.  minds.  They're crazy.  That's why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement.  They're joining our great Republican party.  Now, I can't tell you what's happening tomorrow because you know you have some pretty strange election laws here, right? Remember last time? We won the primary tremendously.  We should have won the election, but they had buses being shipped up from Massachusetts, hundreds and hundreds of buses.  And it was very, very close even though they did, but this year we have a great governor, Governor Sununu.  Great inelegant? I'm talking about dishwashers.  Wait till you hear the next one.  I'm talking about refrigerators.  Probably wanting to say to the union, I'll leave it out because I want to get praise for making a … You cannot make a brilliant speech where they say, "That was such an incredible, elegant speech," if I'm talking about dishwashers, sinks, toilets, light bulbs.  But sinks, toilets and showers, you don't get any water.  They put restrictors on and now they made them permanent.  People used to take them out.  They put restrictors on.   It's a great thing.  Since my election, America's gained 7 million new jobs.  The unemployment rate has hit the lowest rate in half a century.  The average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any previous administration in the history of our country.  You believe that one? That's pretty amazing.  That's pretty amazing.  The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached record lows, all time, never been lower than what it is now.  And by the way, our poll numbers with African Americans, with Hispanic Americans, going to have a lot of problems tomorrow.  I hate to tell you this.  I don't know.  Have you heard? I hear their computers are all messed up.  Just like they were in Iowa.  They're not going to be able to count their vote.  They're going to tell you about healthcare.  They're going to tell you about our military and the jet fighters and the missiles and rockets, but they can't count votes.  They just can't count them.  They can't count votes, but they're saying they may not be able to say, "Why aren't you passing it now?" They say, "Oh, we'll pass it. " They're going to pass it as soon as we do.  Past leaders invited China to freely loot and pillage the United States economy.  China's been taking out from 300 billion to $500 billion a year.  Billion, not million.  Billion.  Think of what $500 billion is.  We've rebuilt China, but now it's a different ball game.  Somebody had to do something with China.  President Obama should have done it.  Presidents Bush should have done it.  President Clinton terrific talented writer.  He knows a great deal about all those tangled lies of Omar.  Mr.  Scott Johnson of Power Line.  He wrote some stuff, I can't believe it.  Where's Scott? Where's Scott? Thank you, Scott.  Thank you, Scott.  What a job.  Man, do you have her figured out.  The only problem is, Scott, it's incredible talent, much more talented than most of these people that you heard about.  The problem is they never pick it up.  They don't want to pick it up, but we pick it up, loss, loss, loss.  But in the middle they have Donald Trump.  It didn't say 500 million, and it didn't say 250 like this Steyer guy.  It didn't say… It said 70 million of my own money.  I spent 70.  It said, "Donald Trump won the presidency of the United States. " Right? We won.  My father would teach me, if you could spend less and win, that's better than spending a lot and winning.  Crooked Hillary spent at least three times more than we did and lost.  Crooked as hell.  She's fawning eulogies to the funeral.  And at those funerals of three leading supporters of segregation, including a former member of the KKK, and yet Biden is now smearing as racist, tens of millions of people like yourselves.  Decent, hardworking Americans who he's never met.  And he frankly probably doesn't want to meet.  America should not take lectures on racial justice from Joe Biden.  Sleepy Joe.  A man who praised and partnered with segregationists, shift millions of black American jobs overseas, and everyone else's jobs too by the way.  If I didn't come along, it out, then they do ads.  So once he did that, I said, "Now, really, look, it's okay.  It's okay, because now the gloves are off. " I can say that this man is totally unfit to be president.  Up here, he's totally unfit.  He can't be your president.  I've gotten to know President Xi of China.  I've gotten to know President Putin of Russia.  And by the way, getting along with them is good.  Although China, I must tell you, got a real problem with China.  What they did with they should, for the good of the nation, "I call for the resignation of everybody at the New York Times involved in the Kavanaugh smear story. " And while you're at it, the Russian witch-hunt hoax, which is just as phony a story.  They've taken, the old gray lady, do you know the New York Times, for years, the old gray lady, so prestigious, they've taken the old great lady and broken her down, destroyed her virtue, and ruined her reputation.  She can never recover, and will never return to greatness under current management.  The Times is less about him.  He could be that piece of wood that was left in the ground.  Biden will hand the left wing mob the keys to your kids' classroom.  Earlier today I took a historic stand against the hateful lies being fed to America's youth, the parents know all about it.  I checked, they're doing it in Wisconsin too.  I was a little surprised, I'm a little surprised.  I'm a little surprised you let it happen actually but we're going to get rid of it.  I announced that we're launching a new pro-American you better vote for him, he's running, he's great.  But we'll get to him and James Lankford in a second, two great Senators.  You have two great senators.  So we passed V. A.  Choice.  So if you're a veteran, for years and years, they've wanted to do it for almost 50 years, we got it done.  We get a lot of things done.  And so if you're a veteran and you have to wait on line for one week, two weeks, three weeks, five weeks, seven weeks, two months.  What happens is made a correct foreign policy decision.  Biden is a puppet for China.  Son walked out with 1. 5 billion.  I think it's a little bit… Allowing them to rip off America for many years.  Now they're paying us billions and billions of dollars.  We give a lot of it to our farmers.  We have plenty leftover.  China is not exactly happy with me.  They pay us billions and billions of dollars.  And they targeted our great farmers.  And I took the money that they targeted, I took that money and said, "Donald Trump is against football. " No, no, no.  I'm the one that says open it up, let's play football.  These people practice disinformation like nobody has ever practiced it.  They're liars.  I'll tell you, they lie.  But we have a good chance.  You have a very good commissioner, and the commissioner is working hard, and hopefully, very soon they'll say you're going to play football.  And I hope they're not leaving Michigan out because it's never the same if they do.  But you have Maryland, where they have a problem  We've taken care of our vets.  We have choice, we have accountability.  We can fire people now when they're not treating our vets right.  We couldn't do that before.  They could treat our vets terribly.  We have accountability.  Nobody has done what we've done for our vets.  91% approval rating at the VA.  91%, the highest ever.  So nobody's done it, and that's why I think this is going to be the most important of all.  I used to say, "Well, I don't know.  How does it compare companies.  US steel now, all of them, they're all expanding.  the steel industry is back.  It's doing great.  We're opening up mines in Minnesota, the great state of Minnesota.  They have magnificent mines that have the best iron ore in the world and President Obama closed them down.  Maybe we can get Representative Omar from Minnesota to open it up, but I don't think so.  She'll open them up.  I don't think so.  Representative Omar, that's another one.  We're replacing NAFTA with the brand new USMCA.  That's Mexico and it up on steroids.  They're going to open it up to a level that you wouldn't have believed possible.  And he will drive you out of the suburbs.  He will drive you out of the … he'll drive you out of everything.  They're open up their … I call it the suburban destruction program because that's what they've done.  And it's been a horrible program.  It's been very unfair to people with the American dream.  And let me just tell you something.  30% of the people that live in the suburbs are a possibility we'll use both.  There's a possibility we'll use both 'cause I hate like hell to give up the one.  Is it a possibility we'll use both? Maybe one a little bit less.  Are you ready? So we'll start make America great again, and then keep America.  Are you ready? Who's in favor of the campaign theme being make America great again? Who's in favor of our theme being keep America great? Oh, wait a minute.  This is your hat.  I was going to keep it actually.  Thank you.  So that's job, Mike.  You're really great.  Ohio treasurer Robert Sprague.  Robert, thank you.  Thanks.  Good treasurer.  Ohio auditor Keith Faber.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Keith.  Ohio House speaker, Bob Cupp.  Where is he? Thank you, Bob.  Great job.  Ohio Senate president, Larry Obhof.  Thank you.  Thank you, Larry Obhof.  Larry is a good man.  How's it going, Larry? Good.  You're doing a good job.  Huh? You're doing good.  How are we doing, Larry? Is it the globe.  You people know that a lot better than the idiots in Washington that has represented us for 35 years.  We took out the world's number one terrorist and the mass murderer of American troops, Qasem Soleimani is dead.  We kept America out of new wars and we're bringing our troops back home, and they're coming home very rapidly.  You see that.  Sleepy Joe Biden voted for the Iraq War.  He supported the Defense Sequester that gutted our military, destroyed our military, set us back so many years.  I got rid of of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force, and everybody's excited about that.  After years and years of devastating defense cuts, we have fully rebuilt the United States military.  Some of it's still coming in.  We have everything.  We've got new planes, we've got new rockets, new missiles, we've got new everything, and it's either here or coming in, $2. 5 trillion in new investments.  So our military is now stronger and more powerful than ever before.  And if you remember, three years ago when I took over, we were depleted.  Our there- … in order to keep the thing going on Trump, I had won, he said, "But Trump raised substantially less money than crooked Hillary Clinton. " That's because I didn't need the money.  I didn't need the money.  I can call up a lot of rich guys that raised a lot of money, but I feel uncomfortable doing it because when you do that, it's like you're sort of … It's not the same.  I could call up every guy.  They call me up and they say, "Sir, how are you, sir? Mr.  President, good third quarter, but next year, and I said it before, will be the single greatest year economically that we've ever had, okay? And if you see that happening, if you see it happening on November 3rd, you don't have the guts to vote against Trump.  You, even you, you don't have the guts to vote against Trump.  Say, "Wait a minute, darling.  My 401k is higher than it was the last time.  I don't think I want to take a chance. " You're not going to want to do that.  The stock market has affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the name brand drugs, but a fraction of the cost.  And that was another one.  Tremendous political pressure.  Think of it.  You own Bayer aspirin.  You own all these name name brand drugs that are making so much money.  And then the guy comes along said, "I want to make 20 forms of aspirin. " They're exactly the same.  Exactly.  But they don't have a big name on it.  Exactly as good.  I don't say better.  I don't say guy.  And he also loves his fighters.  He wants to take care of his fighters and he brought some of them along, the best.  But I want to introduce Dana White.  Dana, please stand up.  And Dana brought along a few of his friends and these are not people you want to pick a fight with.  Because under those beautiful suits, there are a lot of muscles, a lot of power, a lot of genius for fighting and for other things, but a lot of genius under those suits.  A few members of  But I have something, because people were screaming to me for the last four or five rallies, read the snake.  The snake.  Does anybody know what I'm talking about? She knows.  She's been standing outside for four days, no wonder.  And you look good, I'll tell you what.  Four days outside in the rain and snow.  Look at these front row people.  These are warriors.  They're warriors too, like my congressmen and senators.  I made minor changes.  They mentioned illegal immigration.  This is about immigration.  This was of the totally sick left.  This is a radical left people that we're dealing with.  Today's Democrat party, I don't say Democratic party, it sounds so much better in a speech, right? Democratic party, the Democrat, but that's not their name.  It's called the Democrat party.  You know some people aren't allowed to say the Democrat party because it doesn't sound good.  I don't even like it.  I don't like the way it sounds in this speech, but I'm going to say it because I'm not looking to have them look good.  Today's do they want to, I think.  According to Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren, who has somewhat less Indian blood in her than I do, and I have none.  Remember? Oh, we hit her hard.  But I hit her too early, but now it doesn't matter.  She's not going anywhere.  But Bernie said, according to her, Bernie said, and I don't believe that he said this, because I don't know him.  I don't particularly like him.  He's a nasty guy.  But I don't believe he said it.  It's not his field.  You have impossible.  These people would have gone crazy.  They go crazy anyway, and I don't even say it.  And right here in Pennsylvania, we've created 160, 000 brand new beautiful jobs, and you have companies moving in and moving back.  And as I said, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment, the lowest ever in the history of our country, the lowest unemployment rates.  Wages for low income workers have gone up more than 10%.  Nobody thought that was possible.  They're one of the biggest, in terms of a group, one of the biggest our law enforcement? And in the whole world, even on a Monday Night, I like the Monday Nights because I think we're 58 and 0, that's a good record.  Even for the Wildcats, that's a good.  We're 58 and 0, but even on a Monday Night, is there anything cooler than being at a Trump rally? Nothing can.  With last week's vote, the far left has declared war on American democracy itself.  These people are lunatics.  In the face of these attacks, Republicans are the most unified that I've ever seen, and I've been watching smart.  They say Texas is in play.  And Utah, they said was it play.  All these are in play and play means we could lose them, right? It's a better term though because this way, they can't get skunked, but they can get skunked with me.  So, what happens is on that beautiful election… Was that one of the greatest, coolest nights ever? Well, they can never call a victory unless you absolutely have it and unless you're winning by a lot.  This is six months.  "Texas is in play.  You know, he  They use free airwaves, and then they give you fake news.  Free airwaves.  They should pay a lot of money for this.  This is not right.  NBC.  It's owned by a company called Concast, C-O-N, Concast, they're con, they're con men.  It's a disgrace.  They spend fortunes on public relations and then I get up and make a speech like this with television blazing all over the world, I guess.  Yeah, the world, it's all over the world.  And I say Concast, and immediately, there goes their public, how's your by over 60% since May, and we are building the wall faster than anyone ever anticipated it could be built.  And this is a serious wall.  You've all seen it.  It's going up rapidly, and you think that was easy? I had every Democrat in Congress fighting me, fighting me, fighting me.  I had a lot of the rhinos fighting me.  They say, "See, he's not getting it built.  He's not getting…" Let me tell you.  You have every Democrat fighting you.  We took it from here, and we took it from is the home of proud families and farmers, and miners, and manufacturers, and aviators, and astronauts.  Ohio is where the Wright Brothers invented the airplane and where Annie Oakley got her gun.  Ohio is the state that gave us American legends and American heroes like Thomas Edison, Neil Armstrong, and the great John Glenn.  Ohio is the place where strong American workers mined coal, worked the railroads, and forged the steel that made America into the greatest most powerful nation in the history of the world.  And we are making it greater than ever before.  that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in 2020, and we have to get rid of the Democrats in the House of Representatives.  They are stone cold crazy.  Only this way can we save the America we love and clean up Washington corruption once and for all.  With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  We have tremendous prosperity going on in our country, and the people in this I'll tell you what, in the old days, I think it should still be, news when they broadcast had to be reasonably accurate, right? And they had licensing.  Today, they can do whatever the hell they want.  It's fake news, and it's a disgrace.  And you know what, back there, and I'll tell you, it's hurting our country.  It's hurting our country.  They're the biggest problem that this country has is the fake news media, worse than the Democrats, because the Democrats are their partners.  They play together.  Joe Biden spent the last the center of America's drug crisis is the border crisis.  Vast quantities of deadly narcotics are being smuggled across the border including meth, cocaine, heroin and fentanyl.  And as part of my trade deal with China, it's been very important.  And President Xi said he's going to do it.  So far he has not done it.  But I said, "You have to stop sending us fentanyl. " Have to.  "And you have to criminalize in China the making of fentanyl. " And so far he has not come through, but I think he will. corruption.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream.  Nobody has done more for the African American community than the Republican party.  And we're also the party of Abraham Lincoln.  We can't forget that.  People forget.  Abraham Lincoln.  Honest Abe.  To lift up distressed communities, we created opportunities zones.  So incredible.  So successful.  Including 100 new opportunity zones right now in Mississippi where money is now flowing in to build and to fix.  And Tim Scott, I give him so a big check of $3 million.  I just want to speak on behalf of NBC who's absolutely one of the worst.  I just want to tell you … Hunter, Hunter I just want to tell you I couldn't be happier for you and your family and I know you don't know anything about energy and I know it's an energy company, but I think they made a great deal, Hunter.  And then they fly to China, and I'm dealing with people right now.  They're tough as hell, those Chinese negotiators, and Hunter, who's not too smart, stamps that we've had in many years, lowest food stamps because people are working.  So I really think it's at least equal, it's equal, maybe it's a little less, who the hell knows? I just know this, it can disappear very, very quickly.  We have to get out, we have to vote.  That's why I'm starting early, can you believe it? We have less… I see all these clowns on television I say I guess we have to counteract them a little bit, but this is not what you want running, none of them, this is not to tell you.  And, he's fighting a very bad establishment in Washington.  There's some bad apples in that whole deal.  But, if you think that Biden opposed the mission to take out of Osama bin Laden, he was against it.  He opposed the killing of Soleimani.  He oversaw the rise of ISIS, what a mistake.  And, he cheered the rise of China as a very positive development for America and the world, I don't think so.  I don't think so.  It's not been too positive.  If it were up to sleepy, to Sean.  Sean is the real deal.  Thank you so much.  Just give a little hand, because he's done a hell of a job too.  Our campaign chair, Bernie Comfort.  Thank you, Bernie.  Bernie Comfort.  Thank you.  Thank you to Bernie Comfort.  Thanks, Bern.  All right.  While you guys are standing behind me like a beautiful curtain there … Well they're not blocking Air Force One so we could … But I have a woman with us tonight who has devoted so much.  She gave up her business. work.  No God.  No religion.  That doesn't work well.  You would have to be George Washington with your running mate would be Abraham Lincoln.  Okay.  Your VP candidate.  And you'd still lose very big.  And then they say- … and you'd still lose very big.  And then they say, "Yeah, he's doing okay.  He's two up in Texas. " They said it last time too, that Texas is even, four years ago.  And everybody said, "No, I think Trump is killing it. " We'd have stadiums with 25,000, 30,000  No, think of it.  After two years, they found nothing.  They spent $40 million.  There's not a person in the room that I couldn't find something on with that.  They spent, think of it, they found nothing.  No collusion, no obstruction, no nothing.  To stop the far left's campaign of destruction, you must vote Republican.  And you're going to get the chance very soon.  We're joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders, and somebody that's done an incredible job, she ran Michigan for me.  And as you know, for the that? I mean, you're my friend.  Who said it? All right, what a voice.  Have you ever tried opera? What a voice, did everybody hear that? That's true.  I wouldn't say it.  She said, "He has no idea where he is. " But I would never say it.  I won't say it.  I won't say it.  I refuse this.  No, but don't underestimate him.  Look, he's been doing this for 47 years, and I got a debate coming up with this guy.  No, it's true.  You never know, you by the way, never been a movement like this.  You know, outside, I don't know what this place holds, it's like 10, 11,000 people, right? Outside you have thousands and thousands of people that want to get in.  There's never been a movement like this.  There's never been a movement like this.  And I'll tell you, maybe I'm wrong, but this is bigger than it was in 2016, because in 2016 I said what we're going to do, but now I've completed more promises than I've made.  I mean, I've actually completed more, right? Like, allowed to happen is a disgrace.  They view everybody as fascist and Nazis.  They used the term Nazi.  This was a term, you couldn't even use it.  Now they use it like on a regular basis.  Nazi.  He's a Nazi.  Think of that.  He's a Nazi.  You couldn't use it.  Now they use it.  They accuse our heroic border agents of running concentration camps, and they do an incredible job.  And the Democrats don't want to fix the loopholes or asylum.  They do an incredible job, our be exact 63 million people, disgracing themselves and bringing shame upon the House of Representatives.  They've been plotting to overthrow the election since the first hour that we won.  And actually, before we won, they were plotting to overthrow this election.  Before we won.  19 minutes after I took the oath of office, that disgusting Washington Post, look at all these people back there, look.  Fake news media.  It's the fake news.  Look at all of them.  What they don't know is that when we hang it up in 5 years or to impeach your president over nothing.  Zero.  Zero.  And that's very personal.  When they do that, that's personal.  And I have to say congressmen, 196 to nothing they stuck with us and so did the Senate other than Romney.  You can have Romney I think.  Remember he was walking with the Black Lives Matter saying, "Yes, I'm a member of Black Lives Matter. " Everyone said, "That's nice.  Wonderful. " He had a lot of mask on, I'll tell you that.  But we did a great job, it was an amazing handle it anymore.  Joe is bad primetime.  See, the reason I can talk so badly about him, because he did an ad, where he had me standing over the grave and the graves of our fallen heroes from many years ago, and they said … And nobody loves the military more.  Look what I've done for them, $2. 5 trillion.  And in the ad, they have me saying horrible things in front of other people.  Nobody would have put up with that.  It's called disinformation.  They make up a total lie, they put do with water?" They said, "You couldn't lift your hand up to your mouth with water. " I said, "I just saluted 600 times like this, and this was before I saluted, so what's the problem?" She said, "Well I know what you did.  You had on a very good red tie that's sort of expensive. " It's silk because they look better.  They have a better sheen to them.  And I don't want to get water on the tie, and I don't want to drink much, so I lift it up, the water.  It's so did one show.  It was called The Apprentice, and it was a big success.  14 seasons.  And when I left, Crazy Arnold took over.  It didn't do too well.  It was dead.  It was dead from the first episode.  I saw him, I said, "Oh, it's terrible.  What have they done to this beautiful show?" Arnold? But think of it.  I've just beaten, with no political experience, the Clinton dynasty, the Bush dynasty, the President Barack Hussein Obama dynasty.  And President Obama worked harder at defeating me than crooked Hillary them the medicine because we didn't want to take a chance on making the people sick.  I said, "Wait a minute, they're going to die.  They're going to die. " "Well, sir, we can't take the liability. " I said, "Then we'll draw up a statement assessing all liability, taking all liability away from the country, away from the insurance companies, away from the healthcare companies, away from the doctors. " And with the great help of a lot of incredible Republicans, and we had some Democrats help us, we passed Right to Try, and you have to I said, "First Lady, you're not going to believe it.  I was honored again.  Nobel Prize, that's Kosovo. " Israel, Kosovo.  I said, "First Lady, this is great news.  Let's turn on the television.  This is going to be big.  This is going to be big tonight.  We just got honored, this is big. " Nobel Peace, can you imagine? You grow up in Brooklyn, Queens, and now you're getting the… "First Lady, let's turn on the television.  Let's turn onto that fake NBC news. " And I see we have a was over, you saw when it was over? The thugs outside because the Democratic mayor of Washington DC, it's another Democrat that's not believing in law and order.  And you know we give Washington DC a lot of money to run it, but they don't do a good job of running it.  The mayor, she doesn't run anything.  And these incredible people from all over the country, all over the world that were there last night, they walked out to a bunch of thugs.  And that wasn't, remember this, that wasn't friendly protesters.  They were Democrat convention, which by the way, got very bad ratings, I have to tell you.  Unity.  They talk about unity.  They want to bring unity.  And then you listen to Michelle Obama's speech, which was obsolete by the time it got there.  She taped it.  No, she taped the speech.  It was obsolete.  She must have taped it about three weeks before.  I'm speaking next Thursday, maybe I'll tape it.  But I don't think that goes.  That's so much nicer, to tape it, you do it, nice air conditioned this terrorist monster even though this monster was behind hundreds and hundreds of death.  That's two.  Hey, speaking of protesters, have you seen what's happened in Iran? The protesters are on our side.  First time ever.  They're on our side.  In fact, they put this big American flag on the street.  And the Iranians, thousands and thousands of Iranians were supposed to walk on it and trample it and step and beat the hell out of it.  Every one of them went around that flag.  They like Trump.  They like you. that planes are out, cows are out.  Cows, they don't want cattle, they don't want cows.  Did they withdraw that one? That was a tough one, wasn't it? They don't want cows, bad for the ozone layer.  Who would even think of that? You'd got to be sick to even think it, okay? Give me a break.  Give me a break and I guess under that theory this big guy is next, he's next.  No, it's a sick deal going on there.  To do it the way they want would cost $100 trillion.  a second here.  Greg Murphy.  Come up.  Come up, Greg.  Come on up, Greg.  Come on up, Greg.  Just for a second.  Then, we'll get back to business.  We've got to do this, and I don't know.  He's been a great champ Thank you, Greg.  Come.  Please.  Good luck tomorrow, Greg.  Get out there and vote for those two guys.  They're terrific.  We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many more terrific Republican leaders.  A man who's really been stepping up to the front. have no… Look at what happened to New York, look at what's going on in Chicago, all Democrats, all radical left Democrats.  Look at what's going on in the great State of Wisconsin.  Now I will tell you, two days ago we sent in the National Guard.  That was the end of that problem.  Look at Portland.  We want to send in the National Guard, we sent in Homeland Security just to protect our… couple of our buildings, including a courthouse, can you believe it? We sent in because- … couple of our buildings, including borders.  Nobody's coming in.  Very few people.  And they want to abolish ICE, our great people from ICE who send the roughest toughest, meanest people that you've ever seen or ever heard.  Generally speaking, when they have lots of tattoos on their face, they're not looking to do you much help.  ICE, they're rough guys.  they're great Americans, but they'll walk into, they caught them in a pack.  They'll walk into a pack of tough MS-13 gang members.  And we shouldn't say this, it's not nice.  They want us to negotiate.  Manchester, we had some good memories in Manchester.  2016, but this is going to be, we are right now in the most important election in our history.  But I'm thrilled to be back in the Granite State with the true hard-working American Patriots.  Last night it was my great honor to accept the Republican nomination for President of the United States.  We're going to win.  We're going to win.  Does anybody have any doubt? Does anybody… It's very interesting, last night we had an incredible time and I don't know if you know, By the way, we are doing really well with the African American community, with the Hispanic community.  We're doing well with women.  We're doing very well.  We're doing well with suburbia, suburbia.  I ended a regulation that will destroy suburbia.  If Biden got in, they will destroy the suburbia.  We call it suburbia of the world and we love it.  I know it well, Westchester County, the suburban, they sometimes, if you say suburban housewife, you're in deep trouble.  So what you do is you say suburban women, they love me.  but I was early with her, and frankly, oh it's coming back, don't worry about her.  But those days are over under this administration.  We are finally putting America first.  Putting it first.  We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that ravished our industries and devastated communities all across our land.  You see the factories, empty buildings, empty hulks.  Some have been demolished, some have been reconverted into senior citizen housing and housing.  But all those jobs are gone, and we're bringing them back.  They're coming back like almost never before.  announce a nominee for the United States Supreme Court.  They say it's the most important thing a president can do.  I don't know.  I think military, maybe.  We rebuilt your military two and a half trillion dollars.  Great.  We will fill that seat.  It's going to go quickly.  Probably announced the person.  I don't want to make the men too angry.  It will be a woman.  Is that okay? I don't want to have a problem with men.  They'll say Trump is doing very poorly with men.   Went to school right nearby.  Looting businesses, setting fires and assaulting police offices with rocks and bricks and glass.  You saw that.  Joe Biden has the support of violent left wing extremists.  He never once mentioned the words law and order during their entire Democrat National Convention.  Never once.  They didn't talk about the riots, they didn't talk about anything having to do with law and order and respect and our great police.  They didn't do it.  They didn't talk about it.  It's not a subject.  They will rip obligated to do, to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States.  Go ahead and I want them to do that.  I want them to do that.  We will.  We will.  We will.  If he puts forth a highly qualified candidate, we will impeach him.  Well, I said, "Well, I'm the only guy in the world that could get impeached for trying to fill a seat in the Supreme. " So, we're going to put up our nominee who's going to be outstanding.  We're looking at five incredible jurists, five incredible permanently end the displacement of US workers.  In January after the China virus, after the outbreak, after the outbreak, the China virus outbreak, it came from Wuhan, right? I swiftly implemented a travel ban on China and I was criticized.  Biden, opposed the ban.  He said, "I oppose the ban. " He had no idea what the hell he was doing.  Why do you oppose it, Joe? I don't know.  They told me to say that.  If we had listened to Sleepy Joe Biden, hundreds of thousands of additional American lives would have been will only pick, but he doesn't want to do that, because if you found out who he was going to pick, he would be unelectable.  Hopefully, he's going to be unelectable anyway.  We're going to find out.  So, he wouldn't be able to survive a Joe Biden.  You wouldn't be able to survive.  We've been calling it socialism.  I don't think it's socialism.  I think it's a step beyond what they're talking about.  You look at Portland, you look at Chicago, you look at New York, you look at Baltimore and Oakland. much credit from the great state of South Carolina choices.  They can go out, get a doctor, we pay the bill, and they don't have to wait six weeks, four weeks, two weeks.  We had people waiting in line.  They weren't very sick.  By the time they saw the doctor, they were terminally ill.  Now they go on and they go and they go outside and they find a doctor and we take care of our great veterans.  The great rebuilding of the American Armed Forces has included massive investments in the military and It would have been terrible.  It's terrible anyway.  They shouldn't have allowed it to happen, China.  To defeat the China Virus, we launched the largest mobilization since World War Two.  Through pioneering therapies, we reduced the fatality rate- Through pioneering therapies, we reduced the fatality rate 85% since April.  Think of that.  That's remdesivir and all of the things, the plasma, all different things.  Where do you see what's coming out? Europe is almost 30% greater excess mortality rate than the United States.  That's before today's big breakout.  You know they have car in a parking, it's the weirdest thing I've ever seen.  And CNN is going, "Oh, this is so beautiful. " It's not beautiful.  They have cars in a parking lot.  What a deal, I'll tell you, what a deal.  Biden's supported every disasterous global sellout for half a century, including a NAFTA, China.  You take a look at China's entry into the World Trade Organization and TPP.  He supported them all, Biden, surrendered your jobs to China and you know that.  I probably wouldn't be here if it weren't for that, They want to open in Michigan so badly.  They want to open.  They want to have football.  They want to have their schools open.  And it's a shame what's going on.  And I'll tell you what, on November 4th, every one of those states will be open.  They're doing it for political reasons.  They're doing it for political reasons.  They think by hurting the economy, by keeping all these store owners and all these people that work in shops and stores and buildings, offices, they think by keeping them and hurting them, land of Liberty for their precious, beautiful children.  We are fighting for every young boy and girl who deserves to grow up in a nation of builders and dreamers, pioneers and patriots, and we are fighting for every citizen of the greatest Republic on the face of this earth.  Every day my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us.  The brave this beautiful, strong, proud, and free future.  It belongs to us.  It's up to us.  We control our own destiny.  And with your help, of Almighty God.  Good night to that person.  Tomorrow they'll say, "Massive protest. " No, one person just going home to mommy a little bit sooner.  Good night.  But we're bound by these convictions.  We will campaign for every vote, and we will win the great state of New Mexico in 2020.  And by the way, you have thousands and thousands of people outside who can't get in.  So we love you, we love you, we appreciate it.  We try to get the biggest arena we can get, and they're never big they never heard about it, they never heard from me, they thought I was serious, I was, and they came back at $4 billion.  That's a lot of money but I save like a billion six or a billion seven.  Nobody wants to talk about it.  Nobody wants to talk about it.  When I get foreign nations to pay us billions and billions of dollars, nobody wants to talk about that.  When I take soldiers out of countries because they're not treating us properly, Germany is an example.  I mean I have a German my agenda is made in the USA.  That's what it is.  For the last four years, I've been delivering for our incredible Hispanic community, I'm fighting for school choice, safe neighborhoods, low taxes, low regulations on all Hispanic-owned small business, and they are great business people.  And they understood that.  They understood that, they understood it… And by the way, there's nobody that knows our Southern border better than, I call them the Hispanics, I call them the Latino.  I said, "What do you prefer?" It's very interesting.  Some say, "Call us Latino. " what was going on, really in Italy and Spain and France.  When the virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II.  Mike Pence did a great job.  We produced more than 100,000 ventilators within weeks.  And not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator, not one.  You heard all about, and now we're producing ventilators.  Hard to produce.  Expensive, complex.  We're producing them now for the rest of the world.  188 countries were affected by this.  We pioneered advances in years, NATO has taken advantage of the United States.  We protect Europe from Russia, and the numbers have been going down for many, many years, 15 years, 18 years.  The numbers is like a roller coaster down.  I went over, and I said "Folks, you got to pay your bills.  You're delinquent.  You're delinquent. " Then, they don't like me.  They say, "We like Obama better. " They should like Obama better.  Obama would go in and say, "Thank you very much for coming.  We appreciate it.  Bye-bye, I'm going back that, but for a lot of things.  Now, 1024th, which meant many, many, many centuries ago, there could have been a hookup somewhere along the line.  But she choked.  We forced her into a choke.  She went down like a rock, and then she started coming up, up, up, up, up.  Then she totally destroyed Mike Bloomberg.  We call him Mini Mike.  Remember? Mini Mikey wants that platform.  "I want a platform, damn it. " I don't mind.  Oh, boy, he was pathetic, but now he's going to try and buy to buy but it can really save a tremendous amount of money and even have a light that's better. " And there is a big danger, in fact they have labels, don't break this bulb.  What do you do, you're going to throw it away? I promise I won't break it, all the new ones.  So you can hopefully buy the new ones but you can buy the old ones too and you can save a lot of money and you could even look better.  We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty and the universities.  True.  Before the China virus came in, before that China virus came in, we had the best job numbers ever recorded the history of our country.  We had almost 160 million Americans working.  We had never had numbers like that.  The Republican party is the party of Abraham Lincoln.  Remember that.  We- We stand for so much, including Martin Luther King's dream of a nation where our children are judged not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character.  You know that.  The radical left's like Nancy Pelosi, that's a real genius, do you believe that one? Nancy, nervous Nancy.  But here's a guy who slaughtered and butchered civilians all over and military, whoever was in his way, and we have Bernie and Nancy Pelosi, we have them all, they're all trying to say, "How dare you take him out that way? You should get permission from Congress.  You should come in and tell us what you want to do.  You should come in and tell us so that we can call up the fake news that's back there and we can Or would you rather have a man on the Supreme Court? What's going on? Let's give it one more quick chance.  This is a free poll.  And this is a lot of people.  This is tens of thousands of people.  This is a lot of people.  You know, the fake news, they'll say, "He had a smattering of people. " If Bernie Sanders had a crowd.  Oh, he had a massive crowd.  It was so big.  With me, my crowds are five times bigger than Bernie's.  And they'll say, "He had we've ever seen. " For 20 years, the spending at NATO went like this, right? And America, we pick it up.  Every time it goes down, they didn't pay.  And I said, "We're supposed to protect you.  You're going to be attacked by Russia or somebody, we're supposed to protect you.  And yet you're delinquent.  You don't pay your bills. " And that includes Germany.  They're paying 1%, they're supposed to pay two, and 2% is way too low.  2% military spending.  So we got, listen to this.  It never gets these beautiful soldiers, five or six on each side, lifting the coffin and walking down the runway, the plank, they call it, off this cargo plane.  And I see parents make sounds, that were just 20 minutes ago absolutely fine, make sounds, scream and cry like you've never seen before.  The Colonel was telling me that, "Sir, you'll see things that you've never seen before.  A mother who was fine 20 minutes ago, you think, breaking the military line and jumping off, and then jumping onto a coffin of her son or her daughter, jumping on, on and safe communities.  We are now building a wall.  We're building it.  We're building it.  And you think that was easy? The Democrats, they didn't want that wall.  I got money for everything, but when it came to the wall, not 25 cents.  Not 25 cents.  But we gave the military a lot of money and we took it from the military and we took it from here, we took it from there.  Or we had to go to court and all of a sudden we start winning cases.  We're winning You were my first victory, as I said, but you are going to lead a nation to the most important victory and the most important election that we've ever had.  We will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you.  Thank you. Hello, Manchester, and I am thrilled to be in the great state of New Hampshire with thousands of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family, and country.  Thank should have done it.  They all should have done it.  Frankly, they all should have done a lot of things that we're doing right now.  So if you look at it, nobody did it, so I'm doing it, and that's what's going to happen.  We're doing well.  So now we're taking in billions and billions of dollars from China.  When in the past, we never got 25 cents.  We never got money.  We never got anything.  You know what we got? Unemployment and losses.  And some cheap pencils.  More used to look at me like I was a total loser, sir.  Every year we lost money for years and years.  She said what the hell is wrong with you, Henry? And this year sir, I'm up 92%.  She loves to me again.  She thinks I'm a genius. " 92% 401K.  "She thinks I'm a genius, sir.  She loves me again. " Shows what money can do, right? But that makes… And think of this.  Seven million new jobs since we were elected, we were elected.  And when I took over, ISIS of the Supreme Court.  I don't think it can be any more clear, can it? I don't think so.  I don't think so.  What do you think, Thom? Thom Tillis, I don't think it can be any more clear.  This can only happen in North Carolina.  I hope you hear that back home.  Look at all that press.  That's a lot of press.  That's a lot of fake news.  Well, I hope they hear.  So the chant, this is a new one.  Fill that seat.  This is the not a good answer.  Can you imagine? And according to the polls, I won every single debate Republican and against Hillary.  Can you imagine? Those are the polls.  They won't admit that.  Many, many polls.  But can you imagine if I said, "Uh-oh, I'm sorry I wasn't prepared for that question. " I'm gone.  That's the end of Trump.  He's not prepared.  He's not mentally prepared, that's his problem.  But everybody that knows him knows that.  But no Harris hit him with the pretty easy question on busing.  What he hasn't done it for 20. " He was there recently.  They didn't do it.  And you don't change.  And you always go back to the first statement.  His first statement was anti- religion.  His first statement was anti-fracking, anti-energy.  His first statement was anti all of the things, but it was really anti-gun, anti-Second Amendment.  He even put this whack job, he even put Beto O'Rourke, Beto.  Great deal for us.  That's a great deal.  By the way, our stock market is setting records, I hate to say, in don't think he's going to make it.  How do you get elected? Let's say you're doing, not only here, let's say Texas, right, he's against oil, he's against God and he's against guns.  That's a tough combination in Texas.  How does that apply? Now, he's against religion.  They won't open these blue states, they will not open your churches.  They won't open them.  And, I think they have an ulterior motive.  One thing they have is, probably everything opens on November 4th, you understand that.  And, they better be careful, those paper names for a thousand years.  Why the hell do we have to be over there guarding their border? We want to guard our own borders, right, where we're doing very well.  Where we're doing very well.  We're doing great on our southern border, I hate to say this, but that wall is going up very rapidly, 10 miles a week.  We're up to 330 miles and the wall will be finished very soon.  You think that was easy, that was not easy, our great congressman over here, that was not easy.  The Democrats were would not be sustainable, would not be acceptable.  A horrible number, there shouldn't have been one person that died.  It should have been stopped at China.  They stopped it for their country, but it came out to us, to Europe, to the rest of the world, 188 countries.  We will deliver a safe and effective vaccine before the end of the year.  And it could be very, very soon.  You've been seeing what's going … could be very, very soon.  Could be, it's amazing how all of a sudden they hate the vaccine. big ideas, and we have a big future together.  This country has tremendous potential, if we don't blow it.  To give former prisoners a second chance at life, we pass bi-partisan, criminal justice reform.  They came to me, they couldn't get it done, including many conservatives.  And these people that I fight every day, they came to me, "Help, help, help.  Criminal justice reform. " I got it done.  As soon as I got it done, they don't even want to mention my name.  I got it done.  I got people to worry.  Long as I'm here, they're not touching it.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for this.  So true.  But we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, we support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes and they are heroes.  We love them, of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy are the true American way.  We keep and bear arms.  The left tries to threaten, bully, intimidate Americans into submission.  They use Democrat prosecutors and phony congressional committees whenever they can.  They'll do whatever they can to demean you, to libel you.  They try to blacklist, coerce, cancel, or destroy anyone who gets in their way.  Look at what they're doing today to Justice Kavanaugh.  Look at what they're doing.  Did you see the New York Times? Did you see what they're doing? Did you see what Democrats, they're calling for his resignation.  They're calling for his impeachment. private citizen.  They take our jobs, they make our product, they sell the product into our country with no tax, no nothing.  So we end up with closed factories, no jobs, no taxes, no nothing, and these other countries gain.  As an example, Mexico, I must say they've really helped us at the border.  The Democrats will not doing anything about these horrible open loopholes, which would be so good.  So we're doing it a different way, and Mexico is now patrolling with 27,000 troops.  They've never had two troops steward our border, and never let you down, Sean Parnell.  Just remember that Conor lamb, and I remember, because he's like a lamb, he's like a little lamb.  Weak, got a lot of weak people.  We like strong people, don't we? We like strong people.  We need strong people right now.  We have somebody else in the audience who served as my Secretary of Energy and he was incredible.  He was the Governor of Texas for what? 12 years I think.  Rick right? 12? Tell me.  14? 14 years he was.  And he was an and safer.  We're giving them a tiny little bit more fuel and you're going to save on average $3,500.  You're going to have a heavier car, a little bit, meaning you'll have steel instead of paper mache walls.  And we're getting a lot of good response.  And environmentally, it's better, because now people … the number is 12.  From 12 years ago, with the old gas guzzlers, they'll all be trading in their cars to get the new cars, which they don't do right now.  So it's really going to be something, and we're  Because of bad news came out of sanctuary cities, really bad.  And I think that was the reason we won both house seats by a lot.  Beshear is too liberal, too extreme and too dangerous for the state of Kentucky.  Tomorrow, everybody needs to vote, Republican.  We got to go Republican all the way.  I want to bring up a man, and I'm serious about this.  This guy works so hard.  He's a great natural talent in business, which you needed.  And he straightened it out.  And I'll tell you put on me.  Every leader was calling all over.  "Please don't do it.  Please don't do it.  Mr.  President, please don't do it.  Don't do it.  Don't move it.  Just leave it the way it is.  It's okay. " But I promised and I said, "I'm going to do it. " And then I got calls from the biggest people in the world.  Kings, I got calls from presidents, from prime ministers, "Please, please don't tell it. " Then I got calls, "Please have him call me back me," me. said, "It's not an American made product. " Yeah, they happened to be right.  No, they're right about that one.  They're actually right there, Tom.  But I said, "I want to give you the Rolls Royce of walls.  Tell me. " And they told me everything, and then we built some alternative walls.  We built all different types.  We built about seven of them, and then we had climbers come in.  The one that worked the best was the one we're building.  It also, unfortunately… The bad news, it's also the most these crazy people the hell out of office.  And in 2020 I'm going to work like hell that we take over the House.  We have to take over the House.  We have to.  Right? Got to take over the House, Mike.  So here are the facts that Shifty Schiff … Is that guy the worst? He comes up to a microphone, now he comes up to a microphone like two and a half years ago, "I have absolute proof that the President of the United States conspired with Russia. " Russia? What the hell do it, make it so it's meaningless.  You will always have the right to bear arms.  You will always have that.  A few friends of mine who are warriors.  Paul Gosar.  Paul.  Where's Paul? Paul, stand up.  Will you? Paul Gosar.  Thank you, Paul.  Appreciate.  Great job you're doing.  These are warriors.  They really are.  When they went and they tried to make a play at your President, they had to get through the House.  What were we? 197 and nothing.  That's never happened before.   Last month you saw it, we smashed expectations with another 266,000 jobs and unemployment is now more than a 50-year low.  We have never seen what's going on with different groups.  Unemployment is at a position we've never had anything like this.  You are so lucky I became your president.  I'm only kidding.  I have to say I'm kidding because the fake news back there will take that.  They'll take that statement and they'll blow it up and they'll say, "He said they were lucky to have him as president.  What a that, because I disagree with it.  Because frankly, if we kept the old practice which frankly, some people could dispute one way or the other, we would have been up in my opinion, another 10,000 points in the Dow.  And we've set 144 records on the stock market in three years, 144 records.  144 records.  Record stock market.  And you know what that means? That your 401Ks are up 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%.  Guys come up to me.  He said, "Mr.  President, I just want to thank you.  My wife  There's a whole great group of sheriffs and law enforcement here.  Also, with us, our Congressman Guy Russian Reschenthaler.  Guy.  Where's Guy? Great warrior.  Where are they sitting? And a friend of mine and a warrior.  He's a warrior.  He's tough as hell.  They said, "We want to impeach the president for making a perfect phone call. " Oh, did you hear today? They want to impeach me again.  They said, if I submit the name of one of the most talented people in the world to be a justice of Ducey, and I'll say, "Doug, I've a lot of respect for you, Doug.  You won by 16 points.  That means a lot.  But Doug, I don't care what you say.  We're going to keep on winning, and we're going to win like never before.  And the people of Arizona are going to love it. " And he's going to say, "Thank you, Mr.  President.  I'm going back home. " The fact is, we are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before. the numbers are incredible where they're 25 and 30% off, 20% off.  Follow your ballot.  When I banned travel from China, Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic.  If we had listened to Sleepy Joe hundreds of thousands of more Americans would have died.  You know that.  You know he always gets up today, "COVID-19, COVID-19. " I say, "Joe, look.  We got a country," and I agree with that and we've done a hell of a job.  We've done a hell of a job.  If you look at some of our numbers.  But I will tell you, so all of a sudden they have schools.  Then looked like it was going to open without Michigan and without a couple of states.  And then all of a sudden the pressure became so great, and the full league is opening now and it's going to be very exciting.  And I will tell you, it's not a question of taking credit, but truly we were the ones that did that.  I mean, it was.  I'll tell you when I do it and when I don't.  But it was "Sir, we have a great piece of land, a much better location that we were going to way overpay for, a much bigger piece.  We have a setback building that we can renovate and make it great. " I said, "That's fantastic, David.  How much will it cost to renovate the building?" "I think we can do it for $190,000. " So I said, "David," it's the first time I've ever done it.  I said, "David, it's too cheap.  You got to spend more than that. " So a friend of mine, Ron Baron, he's got at her beautiful hat, it looks very good on you.  But look at this, look at those beautiful hats.  Make America great again, but we've done that.  Our new phrase for the 2020 campaign is, "Keep America Great. " Thank you. Thank you, thank you.  Wow.  Wow, and I'm thrilled to be here with you in Henderson.  Thousands of loyal, hard-working, great American patriots.  And 51 days from now, we're going to win Nevada, and we're going to win four more years in the White House.  And after we win four more totally in favor of the wall until I said when I came in, "We will build the wall. " As soon as I said it, they were against the wall.  They said, "We don't want you to build the wall.  Walls don't work. " I said, "No no, walls always work. " You know what else works? The wheel.  The wheel and the wall, you can go back.  Come back in 1,000 years from now.  The only two things I know for sure, you're going to have a wheel and you're going to have a he will always defend our second amendment unlike the opponents.  They're really into destroying our second amendment.  Who've been violently operating for more than 10 years, we got them all, we think they are no good.  With conducting brutal, medieval style killings, you know what medieval style is? Okay.  Little pieces, little pieces, little pieces, medieval style, including the dismemberment of their victims, and they enjoyed every minute of it.  These are sick people.  When I call them animals, Nancy Pelosi said, "How dare he used that name? These are human beings. " I America is over.  America is no longer for sale.  Last month we ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new U. S. , Mexico, Canada agreement USMCA.  See, we played the song YMCA because that's the only way you'll remember.  Just think of the song YMCA.  Think of the song and you'll remember that USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Nevada.  I also took the strongest ever action to confront China's massive theft of America jobs.  Our strategy worked.  Last our country.  You would have lost trillions of dollars, closed your factories all over the place.  In the meantime, China didn't kick in for another 10 years.  The whole thing was a rigged deal.  I tell you, I said, "I'm going to get killed for this one, but we're going to terminate. " And you know what? The people got it right away.  Everybody understood.  That was another rip off of our country.  This state lost one in three manufacturing jobs after the NAFTA and China disasters.  Joe Biden is a shameless cents.  You know what I did with some of that money? I gave it to our farmers.  I don't know if we have a lot, do we have farmers here? We have farmers.  Raise your hands farmers.  That's not bad No, I gave $28 billion to our farmers because they were targeted by China.  They were targeted.  They said, "You know …" and that's what they did in the past to other presidents.  They said, "If you do this, we're going to stop doing business with your farmers and you're not going to I came to office and I had 138 judges that were not appointed by President Obama.  So I say, thank you Mr.  President, very good and they'll say he was a great president.  Oh, the fake news.  He was a great president.  If he was a great president how come he left me 138 judges to appoint when everybody says that's the single most important thing a president of the United States has to do.  Great president.  He was great.  He was a great president.  And these judges will apply the  But we have to include energy.  I mean, how much are you paying for your gasoline? You never saw $2 gasoline.  Less, right? It's less.  They go up, it's less.  It's a big difference.  What is it nowadays? Come on, tell me.  I haven't got any gas.  I haven't stopped recently at a gas station.  15? Okay.  Because for a while it was way under two.  And we're going to keep it there.  We have so much, we have so much.  In my first three years we star.  You know about that, Doug.  She became this monster star.  She looked with such indignation at the other side, such disgust, Debbie Lesko.  He'll be running some day.  You said your grandson? Wow.  He'll be running someday.  Arizona Senate President, you know who that is, right? Karen Fann.  Come up, Karen.  Arizona House Speaker, Rusty Bowers.  Vice President of the Navajo nation, Myron Lizer.  And Arizona Republican party State Chair, Kelly Ward.  Kelly Ward, come up.  And we have a lot of other leaders, but we've record tax cuts and regulation cuts to keep the family farms and ranches in the family.  Nobody even knows this.  We virtually eliminated the unfair estate tax, also known as the death tax.  Does anyone have a small farm, medium-sized farm or business? Anybody? If you want to leave it to your children, you don't have to pay tax now because of Trump.  I always say it and I mean it, if you like your children, it's great.  If you don't like your children, it doesn't mean a damn thing, don't leave it to them. going to like that.  He's a good boy.  He's a tall boy.  I'll tell you that.  Just turned 13.  He's up there.  I'm saying, "Hi Barron.  How are you doing?" But they're great with the computers.  They spent 5 billion.  Okay.  It was going to cost 50.  It was going to cost five.  It was going to cost 50.  Then it was going to . .  What was the final number? Five hundreds.  The number that they spent, $5 billion.  Right? It still doesn't our travel bans on jihadist regions.  We have very strong … remember I got travel bans.  Everyone thought it was such a terrible thing, such a terrible person.  He's such a terrible person.  I'm such a bad guy, I got travel bans.  And increase refugee admissions by more than 700%, opening the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism.  Ban school choice and all charter schools, they're very important.  In the second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America.  A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, a lot of senators.  We have a lot of Congress people.  There's Mr.  Brady, Congressman Brady.  He gave us a very, very nice tax cut folks.  Thank you, Kevin, very much.  Thank you all for being here.  Among the leaders here today for this remarkable celebration are many members of the House and Senate.  They're all over the audience, including House majority leader, Steny Hoyer, and again, senators Cornyn, Cruz.  In my campaign for president, I promised all of that.  If we were elected, India would have a true and year approvals or disapprovals.  He wants to force you to provide free government healthcare to illegal aliens.  He will destroy your social security.  He will destroy your protections for pre-existing conditions, and we will save social security.  Remember they said last time? "Oh, Trump is going to destroy social security. " Well, it's now four years, we haven't touched it.  We've protected it, and that's going to remain that way.  Biden opposes school choice and has stated that if he's elected, charter schools, so important, are gone.  In a second term, I will planes right now, have them there immediately," and they got there immediately, fortunately.  But he directed the recent rocket strikes that wounded four American service members, badly wounded, and killed an American citizen.  That was just before we happened to hit him.  Soleimani was actively planning new attacks and he was looking very seriously at our embassies, and not just the embassy in Baghdad.  But we stopped him, we stopped him quickly and we stopped him cold.  So at my direction, the United States military eliminated Qasam Soleimani and ended his rampage through not only impeach President Obama.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? Abraham Lincoln.  Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community and every walk of life.  We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm.  We love people.  We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement.  People are signing up left and right. believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust.  From Carson city to Reno to right here in Las Vegas, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our great, beautiful, lovely freedom, freedom, freedom.  Freedom.  Nevada was founded by pioneers and prospectors, miners and cowboys who tamed the frontier, raised the mighty that.  He checked her blood and found out that many, many, many, many, many, many years ago, there could have been somebody and he could have been Indian.  And then the Indians got together and they said, "We don't want her. " We want Trump, we want Trump, they want Trump.  We've taken historic action to fight the opioid epidemic, what a problem, and just today it was just announced before I came in, that drug overdose deaths… we're working so hard on this, including our vice president, including our first lady, including everybody in the Trump  I will always stand with American agriculture.  These are the greatest people, the finest people, and we're not going to let others take advantage of them.  For 20 years, for 20 years, you look at a chart, it's just been this way for 20 years.  Now, it's going back up.  I mean, it helped that I gave you $28 billion in all fairness, right? If I didn't do that, and I took it all from China, it was very easy.  If I didn't do that, I think you wouldn't have any farmers right now. it lost, and if your state was ever allowed to safely reopen by your governor who doesn't have a clue.  She's like Joe.  You would have regained far more than that.  Open up your state, Madam Governor, open up your state.  Let's go.  Just like crazy Nancy Pelosi, your governor is a liberal hypocrite who lives by a different set of rules.  Her husband was caught trying to put his boat in the water on Memorial Day weekend while she was ordering the people of Michigan to stay in their homes, and forcing businesses wanted it to close.  I recognized Israel's true capitol and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  And we further recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, 52 years.  For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Now you have a President who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Ohio.  And saying our present battle is the survival of the American nation.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for, and fought so hard told them we're coming in.  You either end it or were coming in.  Congressman, we were going in the next day.  We were all set.  I was actually disappointed, to be honest.  They ended it in Seattle.  They took over 20% of the city.  Do you believe this? And the mayor said, "No, it's going to be a summer of love. " These people are crazy.  So we end them very quickly.  We end them very quickly.  And now what we're doing is we're holding back funds for cities that believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way.  We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.  And we live by the words of our national motto In God We Trust.  From Tucson to Tombstone, right? Do you agree? You agree, right? Look at him.  He's agreeing, this guy.  He's agreeing.  No more censorship is right.  No more evil.  No crooked, he had to make up a fake conversation that never happened- A fake conversation that never happened, and he delivered it to the United States Congress and the American people.  It was a total fraud.  And then Nancy Pelosi said, "Oh, I think the president said that. " These people are sick.  I'm telling you, they're sick.  And you know what? Had they waited one day longer, they would have had the transcript of the actual call, word for word.  It would've been perfect.  Instead, they released it, they went early, they said The Republican party is doing great.  We are privileged to be joined tonight by a courageous leader who left the Democrat party because he has had enough of their extremism, enough of their Socialism, and enough of their vile hoaxes and scams.  He's had enough.  I tell you he really is, he's a brave guy.  He just said, " I'm not doing it.  I'm not doing it.  It's a hoax, it's a scam, I'm not doing it. " We called him, "You're our kind of guy.  Let's go. " It didn't take much workers made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater and greater every single day.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together, we will be taking back our country, we'll be taking it back from people that don't love our country and that take back is almost complete.  We have to win on November 3rd.  We're returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are with them very closely on the Coronavirus.  We're working with them very, very closely.  We only have five people.  Hopefully everything's going to be great.  They have somewhat of a problem, but hopefully it's all going to be great.  But, we're working with China just so you know, and other countries very, very closely, so it doesn't get out of hand, but it's something that we have to be very, very careful with, right? We have to be very careful.  But I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, I said, "Sonny, what's the of Americans have fought and died for then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020.  We have to.  By the way, for those beautiful farmers that want to leave your small farms or businesses to your children … Because of our great tax bill, the biggest tax cut in the history of our country, the biggest that you benefit by.  Because of that there is no death tax or inheritance tax, as they call it.  So I always say, "If you love your children that's a great thing.  If you to win.  Or you can have a tough race against somebody that nobody ever heard of.  It's like a habit that they press that particular trigger, but that's a tough race.  So you can be an absolute Congressman, or you can take a shot at this one. " He said, "Sir, I can do more in the Senate than I can do in the House. " And that was his decision.  Right? Took a lot of guts.  So John, I'm with you.  You have my total and complete endorsement.  You have everything I Shinzō, you have to do me a favor.  You've got to send car plants over here.  You're sending all those cars.  We stupidly don't.  Now they've been building it for a number of years, but you hadn't had a plan built in like 42 years.  They were the old plants.  And it's been amazing what's happened in Michigan.  But honestly, it's been amazing what's happened in Ohio and North Carolina and South Carolina and Florida and New Hampshire and so many other places.  Our country is doing great.  We had to lead to the rationing of life saving treatments.  And they want to take away your private healthcare, your private insurance.  180 million people will lose with what they want to do.  It's a disaster.  It's like, did you ever really feel where you don't even have to treat people nicely? You don't have any choice, you have to vote for me.  I can leave right now.  I can say, "North Carolina, I've had it with you.  I'm leaving right now. " And you know what? You got to go out and vote.   Would have taken two years for another president.  I was going to say a normal president, but they'll hit me with … A little truth to that too.  Now, but for another president, especially, in the last administration, they had the H1N1 pandemic.  It was called Swine flu.  You know, Joe always calls it the N1H1.  He gets it mixed up.  No, it's the H1N1, Joee.  Not that it matters, I guess.  No.  Do you ever notice, he's always calling it the other.  He calls it the opposite.  the word, he said, because they will take what I said and they will put it as a commercial.  There will be no fracking under my administration, they'll have me saying that.  That's how dishonest these people are.  So I always have to add something because … but even then sometimes they'll cut it off at the end.  But he said, there'll be no fracking under my administration.  Now, all of a sudden he goes to Pennsylvania and his polls aren't looking very good because they do big fracking.  And he goes to Texas like I used to, I talked about it, it was great.  And it turned out to be a great deal, but I don't talk about it the same way.  At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies or two agendas for the future than these two parties, you got law and order on one side and you have chaos on the other.  On November 3rd, Wisconsin will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity or whether we will allow Biden and the Democrats to impose a victory that's even greater than 2016.  This November we are going to win back the House, we are going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep The White House.  The American people are disgusted by the Washington Democrat … You see it.  You see it.  Which is worse, the impeachment hoax or the witch hunts from Russia? But we're going to be signing up millions and millions of registered Independents, Democrat voters.  Today I had the best polls that I've ever had since being elected.  The best we've ever had.   I keep trying to figure out who's worse.  And one day it's the Times, one day it's the Post.  It's like top each other, they're so bad.  It's so phony.  In my opinion, it's virtually corrupt.  I've never seen it.  You never have a good story.  I mean, even when we got al-Baghdadi, the Washington Post had a story that he was like a great religious cleric.  Where did that come from? The other thing, if Obama would have done it … because, look.  This guy built ISIS.  The this incredible group of unbelievable people Prime Minister Modi, who's going to give us some of his wisdom.  His wisdom is indeed great.  Thank you all very much.  It's been a great honor to be with you.  Thank you.  Thank you. Well, thank you very much.  Vice President Mike Pence, great job you're doing.  And hello Toledo! We love Toledo.  You remember, I was here a lot.  You remember 2016, what a year that was, right? And 2020 is going to be even better, no doubt.  But I'm thrilled to obsolete before you even put it in the box, but two things never get old wheels and walls.  Wheels and wall.  If you come back in a thousand years, you'll say, "Well, we still have wheels in walls. " And that's the only thing you'll recognize.  The National Border Patrol Council is the official union representing the incredible heroes of the United States Border Patrol.  They've been my friends from the beginning.  To every border agent, and I just met some unbelievable people backstage, these are great people, and every family member here today, you Soleimani is dead, he's dead, bad guy, bad guy, very bad guy.  We kept America out of new wars and we're bringing our troops back home.  No one has been more wrong, more often than sleepy Joe Biden.  He voted for the Iraq War, he supported the defense sequester that gutted our military.  I took over a military that was totally depleted, like.  Hillary Clinton deleted, as opposed to depleted, she depleted them too; but, she deleted 33,000 emails.  When is somebody going to pull the spring? Ah, come on fellows.  No, that's crowds.  They never, last night.  Now, I went home and I tell you this, I go home all the time.  First lady, "How'd you like the crowd?" Sir, I didn't see it.  I didn't see it, but I didn't see it, Donald.  I didn't see it.  Sometimes she'll call me Mr.  President, but she's only kidding.  Believe me.  She's only kidding.  Has she been a great first lady, right? She's been a great first lady and very popular.  She's really done a great job.  She works hard.  of our students and restore patriot education to our schools, patriotic education.  We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.  And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, and we will never change it, by the way.  We will never change it.  They took the word, "God", out of the Pledge of Allegiance twice.  I said, "Did they make a mistake. " Did they make a mistake.  They didn't for them.  They made a mistake for us.  under this administration, the great betrayal is over.  America is not for sale.  And we're more determined than ever to drain the swamp, and that's what we're doing with these crazy people.  A lot of bad things happened, and a lot of bad things I think are going to be revealed because there's no way we can allow them to get away with what they would have with a normal person gotten away with.  Let's face it.  These are bad people.  Thanks to my tariffs, we will soon have over $100 billion from a is the manifesto with Bernie Sanders, with Crazy Bernie.  He made this deal with Crazy Bernie.  And by the way, a lot of the Crazy Bernie voters last time, four years ago, voted for Trump because of trade, because the one thing they do understand, that our country has been off for years.  Biden opposes school choice and vowed to ban charter schools.  Very important to have them.  In a second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America.  They're totally against it.  A vote for Republicans is a vote Biden, Buttigieg? Who would be the closest? Buttigieg.  I don't know.  Maybe we take another crack at crazy Hillary.  Would that be okay? She was so easy.  Remember that speech so innocently given talking about deplorables.  Remember? Remember deplorables? But you know the only thing I didn't understand, I said, "That's terrible. " But she said another word that was worse.  Irredeemables.  I said, "Boy," shows you how good I am at politics, I said, "She's in trouble.  She said our people are irredeemable. " To me that was worse.  Well, billion.  I said, "Compliments of China. " And we had a lot left over.  Not bad, right? Not bad.  You think Obama would do that? I don't think so.  You think Hillary would do that? I don't think so.  You think Sleepy Joe would do that? I don't think so.  He wouldn't know what you're talking about.  On Tuesday, the proud people of Mississippi will send Democrats a clear message.  It's very important for this reason, as well as the fact that you have a great gentleman in your midst.  But  Please do it. " "I can't do it. " I said, "Shinzo, you have to do it. " Next day, it was a story, "Five car companies to open up in Michigan," right? So much for free enterprise, but he's a great guy, he's a friend of mine.  He's great.  They're lucky he's a friend of mine.  I would have been much tougher.  It's hard.  When a guy is a friend, it's hard, but they did a lot.  They did a lot.  They helped it a lot.  And what they've done When I was campaigning, somehow the phrase came up, "Sir, I think we have a phrase, drain the swamp. " I said, "I don't like it.  That's too hokey. " But one day I was in a big arena, 25,000 people packed before the election and I said, "And we will drain the swamp. " The place went crazy.  I said, "Wow, you never know.  You never know. " Frank Sinatra said his best song.  I won't tell you which one because I'll ruin it for you, but his best song is the song that he stuff.  I'm trying to be nice.  I'm trying to be nice.  They want to send out congressmen 80 million ballots.  Now there have been many races over the last year where they've done this and they've been a disaster.  You look at New York, they had a congressional race, not a very good congresswoman, very untalented, I know her well, I lived in New York.  She's not got much going.  They have no idea what the vote is, I think 20% of the ballots were missing and then they declared her the winner Indian blood in me than she has in her, and I have none.  I have none, but it's more than she has, 1024.  I brought it up too soon so I don't talk about it anymore, but if she should be the candidate, which I tend to doubt, but if she should be we'll bring it up again and I think it will be very successful.  1024, how about this, I was driving her crazy, so she went out and hired a guy to check the blood.  I'm sure he had a lot of fun doing and we went right to the top of the polls.  It wasn't like these folks today.  They are 2%, 3%, but they're climbing.  We went right to the top from day one.  We never missed center stage in the debates.  Remember those great debates? We actually got high ratings.  They don't get very good ratings anymore.  They're like, it's like death, watching.  I should watch.  You know, I'm supposed to watch.  It's like my job.  Try and watch, watch the competition, but it's like watching death.  … Did record number of job-killing regulations, more than any president in history whether it was four years, eight years or in one case more, regulations, and to keep family farms in the family, we eliminated the unfair estate tax also known as the death tax on your small farms and businesses.  Remember, that was a terrible thing.  People were fighting for that, your family lost the farm, lost – 53].  No, but it was a terrible thing.  You'd pass away and your kids would get the farm, they'd go out and borrow a lot of money because and I'm an environmentalist.  I believe in the environment.  I want the cleanest water on the planet.  I want the cleanest air.  I want a lot of things.  You know, right now, we have the cleanest air that we've ever had in this country? But what are they going to do about China and India and Russia and other countries that are spewing stuff? What are we doing about them? We're going to keep our nation clean.  But you know, the universe is so big that when you talk about China, the USA, India, to have another beautiful night in November.  This time, it's going to be November 3rd.  Get ready, November 3rd.  We're coming.  We're coming.  So we're having great polls.  You're seeing the polls, except for some of the fake ones.  And if I was treated fairly… Meaning, if you were treated fairly by the fake news, we'd be up 20 points higher in the polls.  There wouldn't even be a competitive election.  Unfortunately, it's probably going to be competitive.  But I actually think we're going to win by a lot, just mile, multiply times 5,000.  That's a big area, even in an ocean, right? It's massive.  And it was the best area, the best.  I got rid of the tariffs.  I told them, "If you tariff our Maine lobster people, and fishermen and women, if you want a tariff on them, that's okay, but we're going to tariff your cars, okay?" Which is a much bigger deal.  It was amazing how quickly those tariffs were taken off.  I did that off of Maine, I did that in two weeks, okay? Took me two weeks.  me.  Biden also opposed my plan to ban Europe, I saw what was happening in France and Spain and Italy, and highly infected, we banned Europe.  If we had insisted and listened to Joe and insisted on doing what so many other people said doing, which is, "You don't have to do the ban. " Hundreds of thousands of more Americans would have died from the plague.  Biden was willing to sacrifice American lives, on the altar of open borders.  And now, I hear him talking, he should have followed me.  This guy did the and talk to the farmers.  "What do you think of President Trump? China is deciding not to buy anymore of this. " You know what the farmers would say, "We're going to have to suffer for a while because there's China and there's other nations have been ripping us off for years.  The President is right and we're with the President. " How great? How great? But our strong action paid off and we'll sign that terrific and fully enforceable Phase One trade deal with China.  And again, we're keeping the tariffs on because we use that with first-degree rape and crimes against a child.  Support for sanctuary cities is disloyalty to American citizens, and McCready wants sanctuary cities with all of their protections for people that are serious criminals.  Tomorrow is your chance to send a clear message to the America-hating left, and it's gotta be.  And, by the way, we're building that wall, and it's going up very big.  Very big.  And, you think it's easy to get money when you have the entire Democrat party… And, they control the House, and we want to change that.  We want be nice, but it's hard.  It's hard for them to do that.  That choice for every American has never been more clear.  That's true.  The Democrat agenda is anti worker, anti jobs, anti citizen anti-family and anti common sense.  With the exception of all of those Democrats that voted for us today, we'll give them up, okay? They're fine, they're fine.  They are fine and you'll lose to them, it's different.  It's okay.  It's called normal political back and forth.  But I want to tell you something, the Democrats are being don't think somebody coming into Pennsylvania, you know those new petrochemical plants, they don't like them at all.  Thousands and thousands of jobs.  Incredible.  Millions of dollars in taxes.  How about going to the State of Texas? We had one candidate who turned out not to be too good a candidate, right? Beto, Beto.  Remember? So he wanted to get rid of religion, the Bible, he wanted to get rid of guns, and he wanted to get rid of oil.  How about going to Texas and say, "No Bible, no oil," think of this that, I said, "That's incredible. " We're going to end the AIDS epidemic within 10 years.  It's funded.  Nobody would have thought we could do that, but we're doing it.  We'll have it ended in America in 10 years.  The AIDS epidemic.  Who would've thought? We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America.  We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.  don't think they're human beings.  Most of those indicted were in our country illegally, 19 to be exact, 19 of 22.  Think of that, they want to protect… These are savage beasts, these are savage killers, and they should've been brought out a long time ago by the Obama administration.  We're bringing MS-13 out by the thousands, getting them the hell out of our county.  And when you read about deportation and Sunday, we've got a lot of people on Sunday, but we have a lot of people… and we're always shooting for the bad ones a great thing.  If you don't love them, don't even listen to the last line, because it won't matter.  Don't leave it to them.  If they're not good, leave it to charity.  Leave it to something else.  Don't get it to them.  I know a guy who can't stand his children, they're horrible, horrible human beings.  They're a little older now, but they're horrible human beings.  He wants to leave his wealth.  I said, "Why would you leave them? They don't even like you. " But on the assumption that you "Well, the truth is I like what I do and if we weren't getting the results, I wouldn't like it. " If we weren't getting the results.  If I didn't see the results, I wouldn't like it at all.  We're welcoming Americans of all parties and political persuasions to join our incredible movement to make America great again.  We're a very big party.  We are the party of big ideas for the future.  Republicans are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school. to rig it.  Biden's surrendered your jobs to China.  Look, his son walked away with a billion and a half dollars, give me a break, give me a… His son's going to say, "Dad, you can't take this money away.  Don't do it, Dad, please, I don't…" You know how much experience he had? There's a young man here, he's a very young, young man, handsome young guy.  He's about like 12.  You know what? He's got more experience than Hunter.  Hunter.  Where's Hunter? Where is he? With no experience, no knowledge of and control our destiny.  The United States and India will make our nations stronger, our people wealthier, our dreamers bigger, and our future brighter than ever before, and it won't even be close.  I want to thank everybody for being here.  I want to especially thank a great man and a great leader, the leader of India, Prime Minister Modi, my friend.  Thank you.  God bless you all.  God bless India, and God bless America.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Now I would like to invite onto this stage in front of  Now, what we've done on regulations is incredible.  I've done… I've rebuilt our military, I've taken care of our vets.  Look how happy our vets are with choice.  Instead of waiting for two months to see a doctor or two weeks or three days, they now go out.  If there's a wait, they go out, they get a private doctor.  They get taken care of.  We pay the bill.  And for the first time, they've tried to get that for 45 years, they haven't been able to get it, but I'm good  Just in concluding, I want to say that America has always been a nation of pioneers and patriots, risk-takers and free thinkers, and dedicated workers who have honed a trade, mastered their field, and teach their children to always give their very, very best.  Every day Indian-Americans help write the story of American greatness, and everyone here today has a crucial part to play in building an even grander and greater American and Indian future.  To help achieve that exciting vision, we are strengthening our cherished bonds with the nation of India, and we are proving the have addresses.  What's your address? What? They don't have addresses.  They come into the country, they don't have addresses.  So you take his name and then you have to release him into the country and you say, "We'll see you in four years for your court case. " We never see them.  They never come back.  We have seized record amounts of drugs.  We have deported record numbers of gang members, MS-13 by the thousands.  And we have done more to secure the border of our country than any administration in history.  building a lot of wall.  We'll have almost 500 miles of wall built by the end the next year, and it's making a big difference.  500 miles.  But you know we won a big case two months ago in the Supreme Court that allowed us to do what we're doing.  This has been … I'll tell you what.  Ready? Another president would have given up a long time ago.  We don't give up.  So we're building the wall, the Army Corps of Engineers, we're doing a beautiful job.  It's a great, it's  His father left.  Not his fault, but they make it like he's … No, he went to Delaware.  He doesn't leave Delaware, that I can tell you.  Every time I see this guy … Wilmington, Delaware.  Does he ever leave? I'm in Los Angeles.  I'm trying to work on the fires.  They ought to do some forest management a little bit maybe.  Ridiculous.  The floors of the forest, it's got 20 years of leaves and trees that are dry as a bone, matchsticks.  Forest management.  Naturally, this is an we were never allowed to do this.  And we're not just going to hit them from our temporary base in Syria, sir, we're going to hit him from Iraq, we're going to hit them from places that they never knew existed, sir.  They'll be hit so Goddamn hard sir, they will be… Thank you very much.  Very shortly, very, very shortly, it was over, we had a 100% of the Caliphate, and these people we're screwing around for years.  Obama, President Obama.  My generals did a great job, I flew there, I flew to Iraq,  It's been funded.  Who would've thought that? Honestly, when I ran, I didn't know that.  We have now the technology and what they've done with respect to AIDS is incredible.  What a terrible, terrible period of time the world went through, but we will have it ended within 10 years.  We will defeat the effort to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare, light bulbs.  Right? They took away our light bulb.  I want an incandescent light.  I want to look better, okay? I want to pay less money to look lost 33% of its manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed.  This was one of the great catastrophes.  And now we're replacing NAFTA with the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA.  Think of the song YMCA.  YMCA.  Think of the song.  USMCA, that's US-Mexico-Canada Agreement.  And it's drawing strong Bipartisan support from all across your state, and all across the country.  It's amazing.  I want to just, yeah.  the Dona Ana County Board of Commissioners, all Democrats just unanimously endorsed the USMCA, and urged Congress to pass it immediately.  Thank you They can't go back.  They left.  We've achieved the lowest unemployment rate without a diploma ever recorded in US history.  Isn't that great? They're great numbers.  Hispanic Americans right now, more than 500,000 own a home.  More than 500,000 more own a home.  And we've lifted 10 million people off of the welfare rolls.  Think of that.  10 million people have come off of the welfare rolls.  And happily.  Not that we did anything.  They have jobs and they love them.  They're making much more money and they " That was 25 years ago.  That was in prime time.  He is the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics.  If I lose to him, I don't know what I'm going to do.  I will never speak to you again.  You'll never see me again.  No, how do you lose? He is honestly, I go up and these guys are grilling me all the time.  Stephanopoulos grill, grill.  Okay.  It's all right.  It's okay.  I think it came out very, well it's always, it comes out well. of people that … Look at this.  There's people back there that can't even get in.  Thank you, Michigan.  Thank you.  It's really nice to be with you.  As president, I will always support the heroes of law enforcement.  I was very honored to receive the endorsement of the Police Officers Association of Michigan.  Where are they? Where are they? They're here someplace.  Where are they? Thank you, fellows.  That's really nice.  I'll tell you.  That's an honor.  I have to be honest.  I got it from depression the likes of which you've never seen.  Mark my words.  But hopefully, we don't have to even think about it.  And that was going to happen here.  When we took over, that was going down in the wrong direction.  And don't forget, that was zero interest.  We're paying interest.  In other words, people are now getting interest in their money.  But that was with zero interest, real easy with zero interest.  Last week, the democrats voted to try and nullify the balance of 10s of millions of Americans.  To  Why the hell would they pay? They said, "Boy, these guys are stupid. " So they asked me the question, "Does this mean, sir, that you will not protect us anymore if we don't pay?" I said, "I'm sorry to say, it does. " That's a big story.  Three years ago, it's a big story.  It was amazing how the money came in.  So we took in 130 billion a year, going over a three-year period, to 400, just because I asked.  Right? Just because I asked.  True.  They don't report that story. numbers.  They're happening faster than you would even think.  We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement.  We are the big tent.  We are the big party.  We are the party with big ideas for the future.  Republicans are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.  Right? Right? To keep our community safer and give former prisoners a second chance at life.  There's been nothing like this.  I passed criminal justice reform, not the Democrats.  political rallies.  I said, "You know the money that your state is going to be losing?" But if this guy doesn't open up your state, because almost all of them are open now, if he doesn't open up your state, you have no choice, you're going to vote for him anyway but Dan, you'll be so good.  Dan Forest, go and vote.  The Republican nominee for North Carolina Attorney General, Jim O'Neill.  Jim? Where is Jim? Thank you Jim, thank you very much.  Good luck.  Got to be careful with those ballots, watch those do with a newspaper.  No, they'll do it.  You'll see it.  Somewhere you'll see it, "Trump supports his plan. " They are sick.  Republicans will defend middle class taxpayers and the right to keep the doctor of your choice.  We will protect patients with pre-existing conditions.  And we will protect your pre-existing physician.  You'll have your physician.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up until the moment of birth.  That is why I have asked Congress to prohibit late-term  This is the Commonwealth where our union was saved by the heroes of Gettysburg and where generations of tough, strong Pennsylvania workers, mined the coal, worked the railroads, forged the steel that made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of world.  That's in the history of the world and we are making it greater than it's ever been before.  That's what's going to happen.  Proud citizens like you, helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country from these very, very deranged people.  We are returning power She goes, "No, no.  They just keep it on your face. " That includes Fox.  They just keep it here, right here.  They don't want to show.  You know what they don't know and what they don't get is that showing this kind of activity is a good thing for them.  It's positive for their ratings.  It's really a good thing, but they don't want to do it, but I give up on it.  You know what you do? You hear it because you can't have … You know when sleepy Joe Biden, write that, but everyone knows.  Unless our friends in the suburbs have gotten a lot dumber than they used to be, they know that.  They want to destroy your suburbs, indoctrinate our children, defund the police and try everything in the book to turn our cities so that they look more like Portland, Oregon than what we're used to looking at.  Never forget, they are coming after me because I am fighting for you.  It's true.  Today's Democrat party is filled with hate.  Just look at Joe Biden supporters on the streets screaming and ever gave a list, he'd either put somebody in the left middle, which would be okay.  You could get votes, or he'd put one, somebody, which is what he's going to choose, so far left, now, if he did the left middle, he loses his entire left coast.  Right? And if he loses the left coast, that's the end of his election.  And last time, remember how many people I got from Bernie, because of trade.  A lot of the Bernie people vote for us because Bernie is right about one thing, trade.  But Bernie Hillary Clinton and the DNC.  The FBI failed to disclose the nature of the political hit job to the Pfizer court.  They hid it, they deceived it, and they lied.  The dossier was written by a discredited foreign agent who quote, "Desperate that Donald Trump not get elected and was passionate about him not being the United States president. " What's this? Folks, they spied on our campaign, they spied.  Never happened before in the history of our country and we're really wise to it.  We're wise to it.  The inspector general found that our best citizens, put them in. " These people are crazy to allow this to happen, so we're stopping it all.  But ending catch and release was a very big thing, and we did that with no Democrat help.  They wouldn't do it.  It's called loopholes.  Who wouldn't want to end loopholes? We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, "Made in the USA. " We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in heroes of law enforcement and just about everybody else.  Wait till you see the numbers.  Wait till you see the numbers.  You know there was a poll that just came out, I think it was Gallup, and it was a weird kind of a poll because it said 62% of the people that are polled are lying.  I said, "That's a big number, right?" I think it was 62% a couple of weeks ago it came out, and they're only lying if it's us because they don't want to be bothered.  In other words they're Once I found out about it, it's hard to believe it ever happened.  So I did that for Maine.  And somebody said, I'm down in Maine.  How the hell can I be down in Maine, after what I did? I'll tell you what if I do that from Maine, and if Maine doesn't vote for Trump.  I don't think I'm going back, okay? I can tell you one thing.  Their Senator never did it for them.  Joe Biden and the Democrats want to gut police departments nationwide.  You know that, right? Here in expensive.  But we got it for the right price.  We got it for the right price.  It's steel, it's hardened concrete, it's deep, it's high, it's a thing of beauty.  And it's going to keep bad people out of our country.  That's what it's going to do.  And the Democrats knew this.  Most of the Democrats four years ago, they wanted a wall.  Now all of a sudden, they don't want a wall.  You know why they don't want a wall? Because I want it.  That's the only reason.  non-union.  Some States are all union, some states are no union.  But we get them all.  And I think we're going to have tremendous success.  And a lot of the Democrats are going to ruin the healthcare programs that these unions have.  The unions have worked hard on healthcare and they're going to ruin them.  They're going to take away… Well, we're going to… you can lose 180 million people off of great private healthcare.  So we'll see what happens.  But a lot of the Democrats want to do that.  They did it twice.  That's where they're coming from.  You can be fools and you can be fooled, but that's where they're coming from.  So don't be surprised, but they're not going to get there.  We're not going to let it happen.  We're not going to let our country be destroyed by a bunch of nut jobs.  America will soon be thriving like never before and together with the people of New Hampshire that have meant so much to me, and I brought down opioid and I brought down drug problems for you by 19% Hunter.  He goes in, he has a meeting, he walks out in his fund with 1. 5 billion, with a B, one point five billion dollars.  These aren't the same Chinese negotiators that I'm dealing with, I can tell you.  These are not the same ones, but we are doing very well in that negotiation.  Now, think of it, where's Hunter? Where is Hunter? I want to see Hunter? Hunter, you know nothing about energy, you know nothing about China, you know nothing about anything, frankly.  Hunter, you're a loser.  Why did you get abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.  Radical Democrats now have a party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption.  The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the party of the American dream.  We still have the American dream.  Mitch helped a lot.  He helped a lot.  It wasn't so easy.  Mitch McConnell.  We're aggressively combating the opioid epidemic and it's bad.  In 2018, drug overdose deaths in Ohio fell by… listen snake gave her a vicious bite.  Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake.  Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake.  "I saved you," cried the woman, "and you've bitten me, but why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. " "Shut up, silly woman," said the reptile with a grin.  "You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in. " Got to come in legally and through merit.  Under my administration we're fully taking care of our own Christopher Columbus.  He's in big trouble I'll tell you.  Except there was one, there was a group of great Italians in New York, they tried to take down.  They tried to take down Christopher Columbus statue in New York.  You saw what happened, right? These Italians formed a little circle.  They said, "Come on. " The agitators decided to leave.  "Let's get out of here darling. " They protected Christopher Columbus.  The Italians, now the Italians aren't big on taking down Christopher Columbus.  You take down those statues you can forget about built the greatest economy in the history of the world.  And now we are very simply, we're doing it again and we're on track to have, as I said, the best year we've ever had next year.  You just had the best year.  You just had the best year of the history of your state last year.  We've created a record breaking 10. 6 million jobs in the last four months.  But if sleepy Joe Biden takes power, the economy will collapse.  He won't even know the difference.  How's the economy? Not good, just didn't.  I think we were like 9 million people decided they wanted to wait and they've waited and you see what's going on.  You see what's happening.  You see the enthusiasm that we have.  Which, by the way, we set a record in 2016.  The bad news for the Democrats is we are more enthusiastic now.  Not even close, than we were in 2016.  We are getting crowds and this is pandemic and we're rounding the turn.  We're rounding the corner of the pandemic.  But we're having them outside.  country that didn't want to do anything with us.  And I'll tell you, they started buying our farm product.  You see that.  They started buying a lot of our product even before the deals are done.  Last year, I got our farmers $16 billion because they were targeted.  And the year before I got them $12 billion.  I just took them out of the tariffs, and we had a lot leftover.  And I said, congratulations farmers.  I love you.  I love our farmers.  They love me.  That's why they believe that, how important it is and yet that was the second biggest story, and what a shame when that's the second biggest story.  What happened to our values? Republicans believe that every life is a sacred gift of God.  That's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion of babies.  Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion intolerance and division.  The Republican Party is the party for all Americans and American values.  We are the party of the American worker, the American family, and day.  He called for police and he calls them all the time the enemy.  He says they're the enemy and he just thinks it's terrible.  He think it's terrible.  Now he's liking the police much more.  It's a little late.  Remember, first instinct, that's where they're going, and he has no choice because he has to, because again, I was going to say, the radical left hates him because they think he deceived them because they agreed on that manifesto and that manifesto is seriously a leftist dream and he agreed from the Green these wonderful blessings, the radical Democrats are trying to tear America apart.  They vilify anyone who doesn't share their extreme views.  They slander our law enforcement heroes.  You see what they're doing with our police that we love.  You see what they're doing.  Has anyone ever seen anything like the water being thrown on New York's finest? Have you ever seen? And I know a lot of New York's finest.  They're not happy, they're not happy.  And they are great people.  These are great, great, proud people.  For that to be cannot stand me.  And I saw him about two months ago and he came up to me, I said, "How are you doing?" Very warm, hey, how you doing? Let's get out of here.  And he said, "I'm doing good, you're doing good?" I said, "Yeah. " I said, "You don't like me, and I don't like you.  I never have liked you, and you never have liked me, but you're going to support me because you're a rich guy.  And if you don't support me you're going to be so goddamn poor you're not going court justices, two great ones.  As we rebuild our military, we have authorized over $160 million to support our warriors at a place called, huh, McGuire Air Force Base and Fort Dix.  Have you ever heard of those places? Have you ever heard of those places, New Jersey? $ 160 million, two great places.  I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  And we recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.  Nobody else was going to do it.  They've been trying to do that one for 52 years.  For at the RNC?" That's Republican National Committee, who we're going to put? And I said, " How about that woman that ran …" She was so tough.  I said, "How about the woman that ran Michigan that we won, first time in so many years?" So thank you, Ronna, great job you're doing, we appreciate it.  And another man is doing a fantastic job, who's been a friend of mine for a long time, your GOP chair, Michael McDonald.  Michael, great job, Michael.  Thank you, Michael.  Thank you, Mike.  How are we doing, Michael? okay, because the people understand, we made a great decision.  And remember this, al-Baghdadi was the founder of ISIS, al-Baghdadi was a vicious, ruthless person, al-Baghdadi created a caliphate bigger than the State of Ohio.  Think of that, that's a big caliphate.  And we now have taken 100% of the caliphate, and we have thousands and thousands of ISIS prisoners.  With Obama, you did nothing.  You did nothing but get your ass kicked.  True.  True.  All right, we're joined tonight by many of the terrific warriors that have helped me so much happened to that guy?" He said, "Sir, he's been shot for the last … long time. " Should have left a long time ago.  That's Joe Biden.  Joe Biden, he's shot, and everybody knows it.  And you know what? They ought to be ashamed, because they do interviews with him, they give him the questions, and they let him read the answer from a teleprompter, and that's the fake news.  It is.  How about the other day? Could you move that a little bit closer.  See these things? Move it a little bit.  get yourself taken care of, we pay the bill.  What a difference it's made.  What a difference it's made.  You know, when I was a little bit newer to this game– That's okay, they got it, they got it.  They go home to mommy.  Go on home to mommy.  Go on home to mommy.  It's a beautiful sight.  Thank you, security.  Do we love law enforcement, by the way? So with the VA, I used to go around saying, "Why don't they do that? Why don't these people, why don't they you imagine you take Biden's son.  Can you imagine? But you know what? We don't do any of that stuff.  We don't do that stuff.  We don't do it.  The kid got $3 million dollars, 83,000 a month and he didn't have a job until his father became vice president.  And speaking of vice presidents and speaking also of reality television, because it's the greatest show of all time, right? Look at us.  Look.  We told you, what, last night? Little change here, folks.  We're going to move it up from eight no choice.  Unemployment in New Hampshire has reached the lowest rate in actually 31 years.  But within a very short period of time, it will be the lowest rate in the history of our country.  Think of that.  You have the best unemployment, you have the most successful state in the history of your state, and in the history of our country.  And then you're going to vote for somebody else? Oh, great.  Let's vote for Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren.  We have the best numbers we've ever had.  Let's vote for somebody else. an additional number of very conservative, highly thought of, highly respected judges.  And they are the only people that I will pick.  Meaning the first list, the second list, it's about 44, 45 people.  They are the only people that I will consider for the Supreme Court of the United States.  And I'm asking Joe Biden to do the same thing, but he can't because he's got a bunch of radical left maniacs that they want to put on the court.  And nobody can get elected, not even with Democrats, rational Democrats, will they vote it's a good thing that they know it and I don't think we'll ever be using them.  And I hope we don't.  I hope to God.  I use the word God, because they refuse to use the word God in their pledge of allegiance, right? Twice.  I use the word God.  I hope to God, we never have to use them.  But I obliterated the ISIS caliphate, which was all over the place.  100%.  Remember I got it down to 99%.  They said, "You got to go a hundred. " I Lieutenant Governor, Ralph Alvarado.  Ralph Alvarado.  Great, Ralph.  You're a good man.  And your next Attorney General, Daniel Cameron.  Should I bring Daniel up? Get up here, Daniel, come on.  Here's a star.  Here's a star.  Mr.  President, I hope you can tell that Kentucky is Trump country.  We are proud to stand with you on pro-life issues, and here in the Commonwealth, we are going to stand up for those who cannot speak for themselves.  And Mr.  President, we are going to stand with you in protecting the money that we save at the pump and on electric.  I also recently took action on an issue Nevada has been dealing with for over 30 years.  Yucca mountain.  You know Yucca mountain? My budget stops funding for the licensing of waste storage at Yucca mountain, so that we can focus on positive solutions and for much better reasons and alternatives.  Why should you have nuclear waste in your backyard? I won't say which countries, but you know what other countries do? I will not say which ones.  They put it on a ship. got bigger, and he'd send them over to Afghanistan and Iraq.  And when you see our friends and our great wounded warriors and our great warriors, when you see them without their legs and without arms and with so much damage, it's most likely that he caused that damage, because that's what he liked.  He loved planting the roadside bomb.  So now he's gone, and that's a good thing.  Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie, has condemned the US military strike on Soleimani, the world's top terrorist, think of it, the world's top terrorist, and we're having people put up by the Democratic party, the worst.  How do you get worse? I believe he's the worst candidate, the slowest candidate.  I mean, in prime time, he was the slowest candidate, which was a long time ago.  Primetime.  You know what I don't like though, they say he's like 78, 79, 78, I guess.  Right? I know people that are 85, that are 88, 92, Bernie Marcus, Home Depot, he's 92 years old.  He's the sharpest guy you'll ever meet.  There's nothing … 78 is okay, but that's a bad 78, not million, are working right now in the United States.  That's the highest level of employment in the history of our country.  A lot of countries aren't doing so well, just so you understand.  Tomorrow we will replace the NAFTA nightmare, one of the worst trade deals ever in history, with the incredible brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement, the USMCA.  A massive win for New Jersey workers, New Jersey farmers, New Jersey union people, New Jersey manufacturers and everybody.  Weeks ago we also signed a fantastic new trade agreement with China that will boost New Jersey exports because we had crooked Hillary, but this is something, these people are sick.  And we have to make sure that this radical left socialist and beyond, because this is beyond socialism, that it doesn't happen, or we will indeed have Venezuela on steroids.  So we can't do it.  Most important election, November 3rd, get out and vote.  Joe Biden is the puppet of the radical left wing movement that seeks the complete elimination of America's borders and boundaries.  They want to take the wall down, they don't want to have borders, they want to have the Supreme Court, they want to impeach me.  They want to impeach me if I'm following the constitution.  No, think of it.  This is crazy Nancy.  These people are stonecold crazy.  Think of it.  I got impeached for making a perfect phone call.  Perfect phone call.  Everybody read it.  Nobody to this day … and the Republicans stuck together.  It was great.  Also, a friend of mine and he wanted to just rip them apart, I remember when he heard about it.  He's a rough guy and he's courageous people who helped build this state and this country.  Democrats are stoking division in order to distract from their decades of failure on schools, jobs, housing, justice, and crime.  In major city public schools run by Democrats, over two thirds of students are falling behind in reading and math.  And I think the numbers are worse than that.  But Democrats would rather deny these children the future they deserve than allow them to attend the charter, public, private, religious, or independent schools of their choice.  Pro choice, pro choice.  Pro choice for schools. the 61 yarder.  That was a heartbreaker.  Right? But the only thing is, I'll bet you this man would stand, only stand, for our National Anthem.  That's one thing.  That's one thing I can tell you.  And if they don't stand for our flag, if they don't stand for our National Anthem, I turn off the game.  Other than that, I'd like to watch, but I turn off the game.  And by the way, I thought they learned that lesson a little while ago.  I thought they learned that lesson two years couldn't fire them.  They could be sadistic, they could be thieves, they could be whatever they were, you couldn't get rid of them.  We got accountability approved, and now we say, "You're fired, get out. " We get somebody that's good.  44 years, and maybe most importantly of all is Choice, VA, Veterans Choice.  So you now wait in line, and a lot of times you'd wait in line for four or five, six weeks you couldn't see a doctor.  Now you don't have to wait.  You go out to a private doctor, you horrible thing to say. " Because they're fake.  Anyway, here in Pennsylvania you had the single best year that you've ever had in the history of our country, not bad.  The Pennsylvania unemployment rate has reached an all time record low.  And I hate to tell you this, when I was campaigning three and a half years ago, I'd come here, you weren't doing so well, folks.  You weren't doing so well.  Wages were way down, unemployment was way up.  It wasn't a pretty picture.  Just a few months ago, I visited the people.  This one is tough as hell, and that's what we need.  Martha McSally.  Thank you.  We'll be back.  Thank you Martha.  Well, she's right.  How about that Congressman Al Green? We can't beat him, so we have to impeach him.  How about that? That's not what our… as they call them, the founders.  How many times did you hear the name, the founders? That's not what the founders had in mind.  But we're going to have a big, big election victory.  We're working to- But we're going to we end the pandemic and return to record prosperity or whether we allow sleepy Joe Biden and his group of incompetence to delay the vaccine, shut down the country.  He actually suggested that he would shut down the country.  We now know the disease.  We didn't know it.  Now we know it affects elderly people with heart problems and other problems.  If they have other problems, that's what it really affects.  That's it.  You know, in some States, thousands of people, nobody young below the age of 18, like nobody.  They have not.  If you take a shower, wash your hands a couple of times a day … It's not.  Then it goes down to 47, 46, 45.  Can you imagine? You pay the highest taxes outside of New York, where they're not doing a good job in New York.  They're not doing good.  Everyone's leaving New York for other environs like Florida.  It's not good.  Because the taxes are too high.  Governor Cuomo's got to get those taxes down, got to get them down, and other things have to happen.  But here's a good 78.  78 is okay, but he shouldn't say that.  They shouldn't say … The press, they say he's too old.  He's not too old.  He's not too old, but 78 is okay, but I do.  I know people in their 90s that are 100% sharp and good physically, actually good physically.  You want debate? So do I.  I want debates too.  I want debates too.  Tonight, we're honored to be joined by New Hampshire House Republican leader, Dick Hinch.  Where is Dick? I think your great governor is say, "It's incredible what happened to your country. " I said, "Don't tell me that.  We want you to have your companies build plants in New Jersey and other places," and that's what's happening.  But on no issue have Washington Democrats thoroughly betrayed the American people than the issue of immigration.  Left-wing, radical, politician support deadly sanctuary cities, and remember, a sanctuary city is a jurisdiction that refuses to hand over criminal aliens that are in local law enforcement custody.  Instead, they order them to be released into your community.  What the hell is going streets, they'll be running the Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Education.  And most importantly, they will put many judges on the United States Supreme Court.  We can't have that.  We'll have a totally different country; radical left judges.  And that has to do with the Second Amendment.  It has to do with right to life, it has to do with so many different things that will turn your world upside down.  And they'll have one, two, three or four, whoever is the next president.  And hopefully, that's going  Who are those two showers? Wow.  Thank you.  It's Fayette County Sheriff James Custer and Forest County Sheriff, Bob Wolfgang.  Where's Bob? Stand up, fellows.  Thank you.  Were you long time Democrats? How the hell did that happen? Well, this is somewhat of a phenomena.  This is somewhat … This is crazy what's going on now.  It can be stopped so easily, and you guys know exactly what I'm talking about.  Thank you very much.  It's an honor to have you in the party.  Thank you.  That's great. Others say, "Call us Hispanic. " Others say, "Call us whatever the hell you want.  We love you, we love you. " But our Hispanic population knows our Southern border better than anybody else.  And they don't want criminals coming across.  They want people to come across, but they want them to come across legally.  And we have the strongest Southern border now that we've ever had.  The Democrats and Biden would be a disaster for Hispanic Americans.  He's pledged to wage attacks on Catholic organizations like the Little Sisters of the Poor.  keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  And together, with the incredible people of Wisconsin, we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you, Wisconsin.  Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.  Thank you.  Wow.  I the same thing.  That was terrible, right.  Sean, right.  Did you hear that? They are a disaster together.  Through our historic relief programs, we saved more than 1 million Wisconsin jobs and 87,000 Wisconsin businesses, that's not too bad.  And, Biden would demolish all of those games, and we've done similar things in other states.  He would destroy your social security, totally destroy it, and destroy protections for preexisting conditions.  They want to go to social medicine, they want to go to social… You know that, right.  You do know that.  clean it up.  We just go right through it.  5,000, 10,000, right through it.  These guys are tough.  They're smart.  And they love our country.  They love our country.  We'll clean it up in one half hour.  It'll be over.   strength.  They don't understand.  Nice.  They chased him out of his home.  Unbelievable.  Biden's plan is to appease the domestic terrorist.  And my plan is to arrest them and prosecute them.  And I will always defend law abiding citizens.  That's why the in American history.  Now, I have to tell you the 300 miles of wall helps a lot.  Remember they said, "Walls are old fashioned.  They don't work. " Really? I always say, and I've said it four or five times.  I'll say it again if you'd like me to, two things if you come back in a thousand years, 2000 years, or 3000 years.  If you're lucky enough, assuming we have something with the world is a crazy place, isn't it? But if you come back in a thousand years, there are two things, with is getting things approved and I got it approved.  People are using it and it's great.  I know the people of Iowa don't care about this but we are making substantial investments in rural healthcare.  We are combating the opioid epidemic.  Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years.  That's a great thing.  Our great first lady is helping us with that.  That is such a big thing for Melania.  Big, big thing.  She is really involved.  We will never let the Democrats give away insurance.  Republicans will never let that happen.  They'll probably change their mind before the … See, this is why I don't like talking about it now.  I'd rather wait six, seven, eight months, let them say it 5, 000 times when they have to do it, and then talk extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God won five times. " I said, "I've done one, but I've won.  But it's the beep. " But no, seriously, we're all smart people.  How is it good when they going good? You're right about that.  You're doing a great job.  Thanks, Larry.  I appreciate it.  Ohio GOP chairman Jane Timken.  She's unbelievable.  Thank you, Jane.  How are we doing, Jane? How's it going? How does it compare to four years ago, Jane? Up higher.  All right.  Good.  Good.  I think we are.  I think we are.  A friend of mine that I'll tell you, this is the greatest optimist.  When I thought we had to be down, we lost a lot of the top, top abiding citizens.  And that's true.  In my administration, we defend American citizens and we deport MS-13 members or put them in jail if we have to.  The chaos you're seeing in our democratic run cities, these are all run by the Democrats, is what will happen in every city and community and America, and much, much worse if we don't keep them out.  We have to do this.  We have to go to the polls on November 3rd and the rest of you know what to do.  You know what to do.  Got hell would they do without me and you? They'd be gone.  About a month before I ran, I picked up a New York Times, it was like a leaflet that you had out at a grocery store and now it's thick.  They've got all their reporters covering Trump, Trump, Trump.  I can't imagine they won't endorse because without me winning, you know what happens? They all go down the tombs they got, all of them, Washington Post, New York Times, those very dishonest networks.  They are very dishonest, very, very dishones.  No, they're very dishonest open the schools, please.  Open the schools.  Open the schools.  We got to get them open.  In the fall, we got to get them open.  The unhinged left wing mob is trying to vandalize our history, desecrate our monuments, our beautiful monuments.  Tear down our statues and punish, cancel and persecute anyone who does not conform to their demands for absolute and total control.  We're not conforming, that's why we're here, actually.  This cruel campaign of censorship and exclusion violates everything we hold dear as Americans.  They want to demolish our love your children, you'll be able to use small farms and your ranches and things.  You'll be able to leave them to your children.  Your children won't have to go out and borrow a fortune to pay tax.  They won't be losing it to the banks five years later.  We got rid of it.  That's a big deal.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.  For many decades, our leaders put global interests and special interests ahead of your interests.  You to college.  It's a place I know very well.  But, we will make America wealthy.  Again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again and we will make America great again.  Thank you.  Thank you, Pennsylvania. Thank you very much and thank you to the original Lee Greenwood.  Thank you.  Thank you, Lee.  Great guy.  Well, I just want to say a very big hello, Kentucky? Great place.  It's great to be here in the home of question.  There's a young man, about four years old up front, I think he could give the answer.  Who do you think would like to have China? How do you think China would feel about this election? In one case, they paid billions and billions of dollars a month to the US.  We never got ever, 25 cents from China.  In the other case, he said, "We're going to take them off. " I think they might be inclined to go for Sleepy Joe.  This is like a dream for China.  Joe Biden's agenda for, and he didn't know.  Why did you get it? I don't know.  Remember? I don't know.  I have no idea.  But you know, you have a president, you love your president, and your president gets honored, because I'm not being honored, you're being honored with the Nobel Peace Prize, for Israel, what we did with Israel.  I went home and I said to the First Lady, "Darling," she's very popular.  She made a great speech, right? And Ivanka made a great speech, right? But I went home.  I said, "Darling, I have  But we said, "You're very wealthy.  You have to pay," and they're going to pay.  And that's true with many countries by the way.  That's true with many countries.  They never respected us.  They could never believe it.  I said to one country … I have great respect for the Prime Minister of Japan.  I said to Prime Minister, I said, "How did you get away with this for so long?" And he looked at me and he couldn't really answer it because how the hell did this happen? We're protecting 94 raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion and creed.  By the way, they turned away 21,000 people outside, so feel very good.  Feel very good.  We haven't had an empty seat.  You know what? We haven't had… True.  We haven't had an empty seat, and this is a tribute to all of us because this is a movement like nobody's ever seen.  But we haven't had an empty seat since your great… and this is a great first lady.  Came down the people are saying they're not even a crime.  What happened? All of these horrible things, remember? Bribery and this and that.  Where are they? They send these two things and not even a crime.  This is the lightest, weakest impeachment….  Our country has had actually many impeachments, you recall judges and lots of… many impeachments, but it was on today, everybody said, "This is impeachment light. " This is the lightest impeachment in the history of our country by far.  It's not even like an impeachment.  These people are stone cold crooked.  When this state.  They may not count your ballot.  But we're looking to save and we're going to save America.  We're not going to let that happen.  So we're joined tonight by two terrific congressional candidates that have been just incredible in the job they've done.  You see it.  I mean, you've seen it all the way.  The job they've done in their campaign.  They beat people that were very good, very talented, great politicians, and they won.  Dan, where is he? Dan Rodimer.  Dan Rodimer.  Dan Rodimer.  And We have some great people here tonight.  I brought certain members of my family, but I'm going to introduce them to you in a little bit, okay? Great family.  They work hard.  I'll tell you what, they work hard.  They really work hard.  But I do wish they would show because it would be, you know, it's actually better for them if they show.  It shows the importance.  The only thing you can do is show.  I'll say, "How did it look?" I don't know how it looked, but the sound was know that.  Right here in America, right here in Arizona, we've created 240,000 new jobs right here.  Including over 60,000 new manufacturing and construction jobs here.  Nobody thought it was possible.  You've had the best year that you've ever had.  Arizona, you've had the best year, the most successful year that you've ever had in the history of the country.  It's the best year you've ever had.  So I'm going to take all the credit away from your governor.  I don't care.  No, we have a great team with Doug and death with a machete.  You know exactly what I'm talking about.  It's right here in your place, in Las Vegas, right here.  Tied up and hacked him to death.  Yet left wing politicians oppose all detention of illegal aliens, even convicted criminals and murderers, and they support deadly sanctuary cities.  I say this all the time and I just… How the hell, where are they coming from? I don't get it right.  Seriously, I don't get it.  Sanctuary cities imperil American lives by releasing dangerous criminal aliens directly into your communities.  If other things to do the first year, like fight off the Democrats.  These crazy Democrats with their hoaxes.  Think of it.  If they use their genius, because they are genius at that stuff, right? They're really good.  They can take nothing.  They can take a perfect phone call made to the Ukrainian president who said very specifically there was no pressure.  He doesn't even know what's going on and they can take this perfect call.  Thank goodness I had a transcriber.  Do you agree with it? Because the fake whistleblower said that ever done well on network television.  Well, it's not business, it's entertainment, celebrity.  Sir, I don't want you to sign.  Sir, don't sign.  I said, yeah, okay.  But I have a problem.  I shook the hand of somebody I have to.  And Mark Burnett was great.  He was my guy and but we shook hands.  So I have to, but I agreed, you know, I didn't know that no business or no business type show had ever succeeded on a network television.  So he said, I don't want you to honestly? She should have said, "I made a mistake, sorry," and nobody would be talking about, this is like the biggest story.  This is the big, crazy Nancy, highly overrated person.  Let me just say she is a highly overrated person.  They give her such good play.  She is a highly overrated person.  Look, they just turned off a camera because they don't want me saying that.  Just in closing, we will rapidly return to full employment, soaring wages and record prosperity.  We will hire more police, increased penalties for assault on law keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one nation under God.  And we don't take the beautiful word God out of our Pledge of Allegiance, do we? They did it twice.  They it twice.  Then they say, "Well, we didn't mean that. " Oh, I see.  I was listening once they said, "That's right. " You don't know what it is, what happened? What happened? They did it on purpose.  They business, but it's day to day.  You have a bad crop, all of a sudden you can't pay interest on a loan to pay your state tax, right? And they lose their farm.  So we're not going to have that anymore.  We achieved American energy independence for the first time.  Totally independent.  We don't have to be in those far away places unless we want to be.  Biden pledged to abolish American oil, American jail, clean coal, natural gas.  He said the fracking, I told you that, but we're not going to let Right? And we're releasing them back to the community.  And if you don't do that everybody gets sued.  Can you believe this? We have ended catch and release.  The other one, beauty, how about that lottery? It's called VISA lottery.  How about this? They put their hand… these people are going to America.  Bomb.  I will not use names because I'll be accused of something later.  But from Honduras, what about it? El Salvador, we have… He's good.  Only in Ohio can that happen.  Who's the man that did that? Who tonight and for the weekend and we obviously thank the people of Las Vegas for having us here and we're looking forward to celebrating a special time, and it's a great honor for the president to invite us to be part of this event as well.  So Vegas, thanks for having us.  But just tell them, am I a good athlete and am I a good golfer? Thanks Mike.  That was some goaltending right? How many did you rebuff? I mean, but how many did Jim have? Many did.  Very few.  But a lot of And if you think it's easy for New York and Chicago and these different places … Ohio endorsed me.  If you think it's easy for these guys.  They never endorse.  New York, they said they cannot remember ever having endorsed a presidential candidate.  They endorsed me, and they're against their radical left culture that's destroying the city.  So I was very honored.  But how about Chicago? Do you think it's easy for these great police in Chicago to endorse me? It's not easy, but they felt that they had an obligation to do it. going to be the most important election of your life.  So I just want to… Thank you.  I just want to say stay healthy, stay sharp, be careful.  Be very careful.  Go out and work like hell.  We need every single vote that we can get because it's probably going to be close.  I always assume it's going to be close.  They have these suppression, the fakers back there, they have the suppression polls where they interview many more Democrats than they do Republicans.  Doug and I were talking about it and I'm lucky I got to see that.  We love South Carolina, right? Come here.  Lindsey Graham everybody, Lindsey Graham.  Lindsey and Tim Scott, two great ones.  Two great ones.  They may be from a different state but they love you Lindsey.  That's good and Tim is another one.  So we have just incredible people in the party.  We've achieved more in four years than anyone ever thought possible and that's driving them crazy.  We passed massive tax cuts like nobody ever thought was possible for hardworking families and we eliminated a 20 minutes, 19, 18, 17. " Then we get back to the battlefield, how'd you do, fellas? "I don't know, sir, he disappeared.  I don't know what happened to him. " They want us to tell them so that they can leak it to their friends in the corrupt media.  You got to say though, that's a lot of media, right? That's the way the Academy Awards used to look when it was successful.  Then they started hitting us all the time and it became unsuccessful.  I love it, I love it, actually.  Oh, they  They float it out into the middle of the ocean.  They find a nice deep spot and they dump it.  That's the end of it.  But we would never do that for environmental reasons.  We are reversing decades so Yucca mountain… You're okay, please.  Okay.  Just relax.  Sheldon, do you have somebody at your newspaper back there who can write.  Yucca mountain, please.  He'll call up, "Yucca mountain is okay. " That's the end of that.  So Yucca mountain, you're in great shape.  Maybe they can finally report to steal away your money, to bankrupt your country, then you have a choice, you must vote Republican.  All American citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who work hard to come into our country, who study, who wait on line sometimes for 10 years, and who respect our laws and follow the rules, they deserve a government that is loyal to them.  They work hard.  You can't say you love our country if you want to destroy it through open borders, open borders are a disaster.  Human trafficking, the first time I heard as the total amount of opioids prescribed by 34%.  The department of justice has prosecuted more than 3000 defendants in opioids related cases.  And our public awareness campaign about the terrible suffering that drugs inflict has already reached 58% of all young Americans.  I said that you have to show them.  We're doing ads beautiful ads.  Shows them, and you've seen them.  I don't even want to describe them.  They're brutal.  But we're doing ads on television and papers about how bad it is for children so they can see it.  Because have thousands of people behind this hangar, thousands, and we're trying to get them in.  And I'd love to get them in.  I mean, it's an airport.  Let them go to the runways.  Okay? Let them in.  I mean, literally there, we landed.  I actually thought that was the crowd.  We're doing the hanger thing now because the arenas can't do it because of the pandemic for a while, a little while.  But in certain ways, I like this better.  I don't have to travel.  I get off the plane. hear of Beaver County? The largest investment in your state's history, all made possible by our pro-energy policies.  Biden would wipe out that entire industry killing the jobs of more than 600,000 Pennsylvania workers.  It's probably 940,000 they say.  Think of that.  Also, prices and everything else.  Now Biden today came out and said, "No, no, fracking's okay, it's okay? Did you see that? Fracking's okay.  Because he was getting killed.  And now we came out in favor of law enforcement.  Look at all these handsome cops here.  And a beautiful the American embassy in Jerusalem.  We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, something they've been trying to get for 52 years.  For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for you, the people of Wisconsin.  At stake in our present battle is the survival of the nation.  What these people are doing, they will destroy our nation.  They will destroy our nation.  And our last election was so important.  I don't know, maybe North Korea, with all that we have going, look at the cards that we've been dealt, lucky we won the election in 2016, believe me.  With all that we have going, they say, "Let's impeach Justice Kavanaugh," one of the smartest, most brilliant students, top at Yale, incredible life, incredible family.  "Let's impeach him. " It's a made-up story.  "Let's impeach President Trump. " Think of that.  The Muller Report came out.  Think of this.  This crazy Mueller Report comes out, 18 Trump haters, liberal Democrats, some worked for Hillary Clinton, they found nothing. Accord.  You want to spend a lot of money for nothing? Eviscerating your state's economy, you will spend a trillion dollars and what it is really, it takes away your power, it takes away your energy.  You'll be closing your plants and factories all over the place.  I withdrew from it.  And you know what, the people that understand, the smart people, they said, "I can't believe you had the guts to do it. " And I figured I was going to be absolutely killed on this one.  And you know what, I'm so proud treatment that have reduced the monthly rate.  And you look at this, the mortality rate has been reduced by 85% since April.  Think of that.  85% since April.  Under Operation Warp Speed, three different vaccines are right now in final stage trials.  If you go back three years, that would have been something that would have been impossible to even discuss.  It would have taken years.  We will produce a vaccine this year and together we will defeat the virus.  It's already getting defeated.  And by the way, another big Democrat  But now I see buy American.  Hey, he also copied on the pandemic.  Did you see he copied everything I was doing? Except one thing, he wouldn't have closed the country to China so hundreds of thousands of people would have died from that.  But two months, two and a half months later, he admitted that I was right.  Thank you very much, Joe, I appreciate it.  And yesterday he made, I think he made a mistake.  Well, what do you think, the USMCA, what's better that or NAFTA? Well, no, the USMCA " I hope that some of you people are looking, because what AOC has gotten away with campaign financing and what … I call it AOC plus three, that's what it is.  And Omar is one of the three.  What AOC has gotten away with all of that money that she used for her personal self with campaign finance is worse, and nothing happens to them, but it happens to you, and it's not fair.  The fact is, we're in a struggle for the survival of democracy in America.  The only message these radical socialists and the rise of a dangerous militant hard left, but that's so, they are very evil.  They're hitting people over the head with sticks, and I mean sticks.  I mean bats even, they're whacking people with bats.  They're very brave.  They always show up with a mask and they're covered, because then they go home to mom and dad.  They don't want mom and dad to know where they were.  But they always attract people that really can't defend themselves very well.  Right? They're attacking this group.  They're not attack North Carolina.  administration, it's dropped for the first time in more than 30 years, it's gone down.  First time, it was a big problem.  And in North Carolina and we're far from finished, it's a big problem, it declined 8% last year.  That's a lot because it was just going up like a rocket.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb right up until the moment of birth.  Well then you have the gentleman from… our governor from Virginia, so we're talking about late term, he's talking to give us wind.  Wind.  If it blows, wonderful.  If it doesn't blow, you got problems.  Wind.  They want to destroy our countrysides, put windmills all over them.  Watch your house go down in value.  You ever see what happens? They build a windmill within distance of your house.  You could forget about your house.  You could just say, well, that was the end of that investment.  You want to see a bird graveyard, go to the bottom of a windmill.  Take a look.  It's a graveyard for going to do for you, and you say, "But we have the best numbers, every category, that we've ever had. " Hispanic-Americans … excuse me, New Mexico as a whole, we have the best numbers.  African-Americans, the best numbers that we've ever had in the history of our country.  Asian-Americans, the best numbers that we've ever had in history.  Women, the best numbers that we've had in 71 years.  We're working night and day to deliver a future of limitless opportunity for our nation's Hispanic-American citizens, including millions and millions of extraordinary Mexican-Americans who enrich our voting, if you didn't know it, has already begun and watch it and watch those fake ballots, you got to go out and turn them in.  If you see somebody cheating, you got to turn them in, from Erie … and you probably will, it's going to be a mess, watch this.  But get out and vote early.  From Erie to Eastern, from Altoona to Scranton, from Harrisburg to right here in Pittsburgh.  Say hello to big Ben.  We stand on the shoulders of Pennsylvania patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for their to be with you tonight, the great state of Mississippi.  The great state of Mississippi, and by the way, the birthplace of a gentleman, not too many people heard of him, Elvis Presley.  But to be with thousands of incredible patriots who put their faith in God, family and country.  Right? Four days from now, this state will head to the polls and vote to continue our extraordinary progress with your next governor, Republican Tate Reeves.  Great guy.  Great guy.  Under Republican leadership, jobs are booming, confidence is soaring, wages are rising, crime is except we did keep the oil.  You noticed that, right? We kept the oil.  Sorry.  They said, "He left soldiers in Syria. " Yeah, I did to keep the oil, if you don't mind.  Which is what we should have done in Iraq too, by the way.  I would have done that.  I'm making a lot of money with all that oil.  But you remember that whole thing, that whole… I said, "You got to find Al Baghdadi. " I've been saying that actually for two years.  I had a lot of the vets, and the vets' care, and nobody's done better.  We got choice for the vets.  We did things for the vets that nobody thought would be possible.  But I saw these young men, and I gave them their Purple Hearts.  And their parents were there crying.  And one of them was so amazing.  I said, "What's your problem?" "Sir, my face was blown apart.  My nose was absolutely just blown apart. " He said, "Sir, it's incredible. " And I looked at him, I said, "That's the most beautiful nose I've ever Prime Minister, it's not fair.  We've got to change, we've got to change, we've got to change," and we're talking to them very seriously.  We're talking to a lot of places.  But when the Wall Street Journal comes out and they say, " No, no, take the tariffs.  Go and talk to China. " They've been trying to talk to them for 25 years.  But actually, you know what? They really haven't.  The fact is the leaders that were in my position, they didn't do a damn thing.  They didn't talk.  They  You'll know, you'll know.  Yet Democrats want to open borders and Republicans want strong borders.  That you're difference.  One wants open borders.  Who can even think of an open border? Think of it? Even though many people that come into our country are wonderful people, they're are still coming in illegally.  They're not coming in through merit.  But what about the bad ones? We have serious, serious criminals that want to come in, and if we had open borders they would be flowing in like you've never seen before.  Democrats want open know, we have the fake news.  You know about that, where they … A wall that's lying on the ground in a very important section.  So we pick up the wall, it's in pieces.  I mean literally it's gone and we build a brand new 30 foot steel and concrete wall and the fake media said, "He didn't build a wall.  That's just renovation.  There was no wall, it's lying on the ground. " People walk right over and it's rotted, rusted, gone.  We take it away.  We put a brand new wall here, and you know what they'll do? I'll say, how's the Olympics going? Does anybody have a ticket for the president that got the Olympics to come here? They'll say, I want to thank and they'll thank hundreds of people, but they won't thank you president that I'm the one that pulled it off.  But that's okay.  2028 Olympics is coming to Los Angeles.  It's going to be great.  And we worked with the mayor of Los Angeles.  He was great.  He called up and we gave him a lot of help.  I Democrat party is run by left wing extremists who want to massively raise your taxes, increase regulations, cancel your health plans, raid Medicare, shut down American energy, destroy your social security, they will destroy your social security, eliminate religious liberty, punish free speech, confiscate your guns, abolish your borders, and indoctrinate America's children with hateful, left-wing ideology.  Other than that, they're okay.  Other than that, they're fine people.  In short, this election is a choice between American freedom and Democratic socialism, and in some cases, in my opinion, it's worse than Socialism.  Socialism's a kind word believed that was possible.  370 companies have signed our pledge to America's workers providing more than 14 million Americans with new training and job opportunities.  We're training them.  We're getting them, Walmart, so many great companies, they're training people, because they can train a much better than government.  14 million, you know who has worked so hard on that? Everybody, you've heard of Ivanka, right? Ivanka.  She had such a passion for it.  She's very smart.  I said, would you like this? You have no debt.  I want to get people working.  I think it's a step worse than socialist.  And it starts with a C.  That is why we're going to win a record share of the Hispanic vote in November.  So important.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  It's so important.  We're bringing it back very fast.  I think next year is… Next year, I believe will be as good or better than the year we had last year.  Unless somebody comes in and decides to quadruple your taxes, then I can't.  Then all bets top of the flowers, on top of the American flag. " I've seen this.  Then I have all these people that want to stay.  They want to stay.  And I don't want to stay.  We were supposed to be in Syria for 30 days.  We've now been there for 10 years.  We were supposed to be in Afghanistan for a short period of time.  We're now going to be there for close to 19 years.  It's time to bring them home.  It's time to bring them home.  It's true.  didn't work.  They tried many other things.  I always say, "The media and their partner, the Democrats. " I wouldn't mind fighting the Democrats, but we really have to look at it as a two-some.  It's the media and the Democrats.  It's one and the same.  We're rebuilding our military, defending our sovereignty and reclaiming our dignity as a nation.  America is winning again and America is respected again.  They respect America.  By the way, I have about 10 women in the front row and you come from North Carolina and they US military.  All of that money, trillions and trillions of dollars spent all produced right here in the good old USA.  And I have to tell you, New Mexico, I know you're going to like this.  A lot of those trillions because you know when you do the 716 and the 730 and the 700 -billion, all of a sudden you're in trillions and I can save a lot of lines when I just say trillions.  A lot of that money's going to be spent in the state of the art military equipment that's being used ballots you talk about, a bad thing, just get out and vote, get out and vote.  And, if you have to go that route, make sure they have it counted.  And, they know it's trouble.  They just had another election today, fellows, where it's a disaster.  The votes come in, they have no idea, they can't count them.  And, I don't mean they're off by a little bit, they're off by 20 percent, 25 percent.  There's fraud.  There's missing ballots.  They have a woman in New York who is a terrible congresswoman, "Don't have the rally.  We're not going to let you have the rally. " And he's calling, this governor who was a political hack, he was a political hack, and then he became governor.  And this is the guy that we're entrusting with millions of ballots, unsolicited ballots, millions and millions.  And then we're supposed to win these states, and we have a guy that would do that where he won't let us have, and we call it a protest and therefore we can do it.  But you want to know something? It's a disgrace.  And Colby is a very fit guy and fantastic.  But he didn't look quite the same.  It wasn't even a contest.  It went a few rounds.  I couldn't believe what you did.  He took him apart so easily.  It was like an easy day at the office.  So you have to explain that to me someday, Colby, but we love you, man.  You're with us and where we are with you.  Another great, great champion.  Another great champion, Henry Cejudo, one of the best in the world.  And Henry, way, they want all of the name, Washington removed from everything.  I haven't been keeping up with it.  What did he do? George Washington, they want the name off.  Congressman are we okay showing … I don't think you liked that idea too much.  George Washington.  They want his name off everything, but we'll keep it.  I promise you this.  As long as you canceled culture, you better have a strong president.  Canceled culture.  George Washington, can you believe? But he led his men on a daring mission across the Delaware. will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you, Pennsylvania.  Thank you. Well, thank you very much.  And hello Las Vegas.  Great to be with you.  They have a big election tomorrow.  We've already won the state.  We've already won.  I like ours better.  We just take it.  Just take it.  We've won it.  I like it that better.  You know they say they're Thank you.  Thank you, Greg.  And thanks also to New Hampshire Senate Republican leader, Chuck Morse.  Thank you, Chuck.  Thank you.  And I see somebody, two great people, a great couple in the audience, Matt Schlapp and Mercedes Schlapp.  They are warriors also.  They're warriors also.  And I see next to them, two warriors.  Corey, you just are such a fighter.  You are such a fighter.  Ah, boy, if we could get him to run for Senate, he would win so easily.  Corey Lewandowski, who loves this state okay?" Two points behind.  You never ever… Please.  Always just assume you're a little behind, but we're going to win this state by so much that people are going to be shocked.  Ad plenty of other states too.  We had a rally three weeks ago in New Mexico, and New Mexico's a hard state for Republicans, hasn't been won in a long time also.  And we had receptivity that was unbelievable.  The audience was 40% Hispanic, where we're doing great.  And you know, Hispanic, they understand borders better than anybody, better than we the media, their partners.  Then you have the deep state.  We're getting rid of a lot of them.  I'll tell you, we're finding them left and right.  Boom.  You take a look at what… I'll tell you what.  I'll tell you what.  You take a look at what we're doing with all of the things.  I'm not going to get into detail, but you know what I'm talking about.  Clean the swamp.  That's the ultimate cleaning of the swamp.  And then I hate to say this, but we have 20 billion to purchase, right? 20 billion, 20, that's a lot money, that's a lot of corn, $20 billion, and I said, "Make it 50.  China's very big. " And they said, "Okay. " They said, "Sir, the farmers can't produce that much. " I said, "Let the farmers tell me that.  Tell them to go out and, remember, and buy a bigger what? Tractor, buy a bigger tractor. " You'll produce it.  So $40 to $50 billion of agriculture product and the manufacturers and the car companies, and we brought a lot of car companies into in Washington DC.  We got a lot of steaks in New York.  I don't like either kind of snake.  I think I like the kind on the ground better than the ones we have in Washington.  Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would destroyed Medicare as we know it today.  My administration will protect Medicare and defend your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you.  And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.  The Republicans will always do like the US military.  We have the most powerful military in the world.  When I took it over, it was depleted.  It was in trouble and was exhausted from these ridiculous, endless wars that lasts 19 and 20 years, and you know, those soldiers are starting to come home very big.  You know that right?.  We passed the MISSION Act, we call it VA Choice and VA Accountability.  We hold people accountable if they don't treat our vets good, you're fired.  Get out.  You're fine.  We did more in 47 months thing built.  You have no idea.  You have no idea.  You have no idea.  But I should have said, the mistake, I should have said when I talked to these big crowds, and the crowds are getting bigger, there's more enthusiasm now than we ever had four years ago, but I should have said, instead of, "We will build a wall," I kept, "We will build a wall," place would go crazy, I should have said, "We will not build the wall.  Under no circumstances, will we build a wall," the Democrats would have given we have a great football player, from Iowa, Matt Whitaker is here, Matt.  Say something.  Thank you, Sarah.  Very popular.  She is a terrific person, great person.  Thanks to Republican leadership, American now has the hottest economy anywhere on the Planet Earth, not even close.  Every Prime Minister, President, King, Queen, Dictator, whatever you want to call them, they all say, "How did you do it?" And, the truth is we have certain advantages, but we also have a people advantage.  We have the greatest people in the world.  I really mean is? Is she okay? I'll get it for her.  Is she okay? We got to get her on the list.  Tell me.  Oh, from before.  Well, that's a long time before I was president.  Does she want to get on the list? Because I've seen you at rallies before.  I want to get … Will you please, I want to get his wife on the list.  It's called right to try.  Right to try.  Good work.  He's been a friend of mine.  Come on.  He's been here for she could really wheel the Warthog, right? The Warthog.  She said, "I love that plane," but she was a great, great fighter pilot, one of the best they were telling me.  This was a group and they knew a very well.  A lot of friends you have.  And specifically she said, "Could you extend that plane? That's the best plane.  It never breaks down.  It just is a winner. " But Martha McSally is an extraordinary person, and she's fighting for us, and she's helping us, and we have to bring her into the escalator with me in Trump Tower a long time ago.  We haven't had an empty seat.  From our rural communities to our inner cities, we're expanding the blessings of America to all of our citizens.  We added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone.  You saw that, the geniuses.  You saw that.  You saw that last month.  They were doing predictions on one of the shows.  What do you think? Well, I think 60,000.  What do you think? I think 100,000.  What do you think? I think 84,000.  These the power of American enterprise so every American can know the dignity of work and the pride of a paycheck.  With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress, those great gentlemen that just left the stage.  To create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration, we will enact trade deals and they are going like you won't even believe.  That doesn't mean the other countries are thrilled with me, there was a recent poll, Germany likes Obama better than Trump.  A lot better.  I said, "Of course, because I'm making them pay have a big, big election victory.  We're working together.  I don't think the Republican party has ever been more unified than it is right now.  I really don't believe so.  So whatever you can do for Martha, we need her.  It's been so incredible.  Thank you very much.  Thank you for everything, Martha.  I appreciate it.  Thank you.  Together we're building the world's most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society anywhere.  We're inclusive.  This is the Republican party.  We're inclusive.  Right here in… Right? You tell you.  Just, all you have to do is take a look at all the ads they're running against me.  Favored Nations, where we pay whatever the lowest is in the world, we pay that number.  We will protect Medicare and social security, and we will always protect our patients.  We will always our people.  We will your pre-existing conditions, as I said.  America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  We will restore patriotic education, you that nobody else could have ever achieved.  No other administration, certainly the last one, because the last one was grossly incompetent.  In fact, that's why I'm here, because if it was good, I wouldn't have run.  If they did their job, I wouldn't have run.  I was very happy in my other life.  I was very happy, but I'm very happy in this life.  More happy, because nobody has produced in three and a half years, the first three and a half years, nobody has done what we have been able to do, nobody. jobs in factories back and that's a continuation.  Because I don't know if you know it, the single greatest year Wisconsin has ever had was last year.  The second best year that Wisconsin has ever had was the year before.  And guess what the third was the year before that? And you're going to have your best year economically next year, it's all heading in that direction despite the pandemic given to us by China.  We want to put the violent criminals behind bars and we have to ensure the future belongs to America, not to we know it.  And this is true.  I don't think of him as a radical lefty, but basically he's controlled by them.  And what about this Kamala? How about her? She at 15%, no, she's at 13%.  Then people started … no she's at 12.  No, she's at 10.  She's at nine, she's at seven.  These are a poll numbers.  She got worse than worse.  She quit before she ever got to Iowa.  We have a great vice president, Mike Pence.  He's great and he says hello.  If There were amateurs.  And now he tells us how to do something that's far more lethal.  But he said, " They should have closed one week early," except when it came to closing the border, which I did, which turned out to save tens of thousands of lives, Biden criticized me until two months later when he said I was right.  But we should have closed a weak earlier.  Think of that.  We pioneered lifesaving therapies, reducing the fatality rate 85% since April.  Think of that.  Remdesivir, the plasmas, we have among the think of it, and then they get Pulitzer Prizes, but it turned out to be all wrong.  How do you do that? They get Pulitzer Prizes for being wrong.  The Pulitzer Prize doesn't mean a thing.  It doesn't mean a thing.  I mean, I'm here to tell you about the Nobel Peace Prize.  I'll tell you about that.  I made a deal.  I saved a country.  And I just heard that the head of that country is now getting the Noble Peace Prize for saving the country.  I said, "Did I Tulsi.  The only thing I know about both of them is they're not agent.  They are not agents of Russia.  These people are sick.  That's pencil neck, pencil neck again.  Little pencil.  No, I just see it again.  I was told that was happening.  I was told a week ago.  They said they're trying to start a rumor.  It's disinformation.  That's the only thing they're good at.  They're not good at anything else.  They get nothing done.  Do nothing Democrats.  That Putin wants to make  You will go into a depression.  And I'm very good at predicting this.  You will go into a depression the likes of which this country has not seen since 1929, and who knows, maybe worse than that.  They are playing a suicide mission.  … be worse than that.  They are playing a suicide mission if they want to raise your taxes.  They want to raise your taxes by $4 trillion.  And that's going to be almost everybody.  They're saying for the rich.  No, not for the rich.  They're going recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we achieved the first breakthrough in Middle East peace in decades.  And by the way, on Wednesday, I believe of next week, Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and as you know, the country, a very powerful, very respected country with a great leader, the UAE, is coming to the White House and we're going to sign an agreement that hasn't been signed in many decades.  It's peace and its recognition of Israel and all of the things, nobody thought it could be done.  It's an amazing thing.  I don't  They want to negotiate and they are negotiating, so let's see what happens, but we're going to get you cuts on prescription drugs, the likes of which you've never seen.  We'll protect Medicare and Social Security.  They will not be able to protect it.  It will always protect patients with preexisting conditions, always.  America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.  When I took over, NASA was dead.  Now it's the most vibrant space center in the  And we're going to keep the White House, but we're going to win back the House.  We're going to win back the House.  And I'm thrilled tonight.  A man who has become a great friend of mine, he's a warrior.  Senator Ron Johnson is here.  Come up here.  What a good guy.  Congressman Bryan Steil.  Jim Sensenbrenner.  Glenn Grothman.  Glenn, come up.  Come up.  Mike Gallagher.  Wisconsin house speaker Robin Voss.  Wisconsin state Senate president Roger Roth.  State Senate president.  Come on fellas. for the final deal.  What are you doing?" He said, "I'm putting in $20 billion. " Because I asked Sonny Perdue.  He's great.  You know who he is, right? Secretary of Agriculture.  I said, "Sonny, what's the biggest number that China's ever done with the farmers?" He said, "Sir, $16 billion last year.  $16 billion. " This was two years ago.  I said, "So, $16 billion is the biggest," because you know, they targeted you, and now we're friends with China.  In fact, maybe we've never had a better relationship and were working is tough.  He is smart.  He's brilliant, actually.  And he loves this state and he loves you people.  Senator Roger Wicker.  Roger.  Thanks, Roger.  Thank you, Roger.  And somebody, I'll call her up because, believe it or not, she's running with me.  She just ran.  I said, "Cindy, you just ran.  You just won. " She said, "No, I have to do it again. " She's running in 2020.  I thought she'd have six years.  I said, "Cindy, it's only like a year. " Cindy Hyde-Smith.  of our most distinguished, hardworking, wonderful friends, senators.  They do a great job.  Senator Jim Inhofe and James Lankford, please stand up.  Two very respected, I will tell you, two very respected people in Washington.  They're respected by everybody.  They do some job, and I'd have you come up, but you can relax.  I will say this.  Jim is running on November 3rd, Jim Inhofe.  He's running on November 3rd.  I don't even know.  Does he… Hey, James? Does he have any competition? Is somebody actually running against… There's no their shore, no fishing, no nothing.  They called it a monument, right? Right off their shore.  Maine, I mean, if I don't win Maine … Maine traditionally is not really very Republican, but I won Maine too last time, actually.  Because I love Maine, too.  I love Maine, too.  But think of what I did.  I opened the waters up for fishermen and for lobster men and women.  Now they go lobster fishing and fishing.  But 5, 000, I said, "Why did they close it?" Nobody was able to tell me, but admissions by 700% into our country.  Flooding your towns with poorly vetted migrants, including many from jihadist regions of the world.  Biden opposes school choice, he opposes North Carolina opportunity scholarships.  And he has stated that if he is elected, charter schools are gone.  He said, they're gone.  And they've been incredible.  In the second term I'll provide school choice to every parent in America.  And we'll also take good care of our teachers.  Our teachers are very, very important to me.  Very important, nothing more important.  A vote for out of their pajamas.  They were.  I said, "Don't worry about it. " I said, "We won't put that on. " But they were sitting there and they were calling a roll call in the plane.  Right? And it was a beautiful sight.  And these guys were better than Tom Cruise at his best.   Protestors Disturb the Rally.  One protester, a very weak voice.  If you people wouldn't go crazy every time you see something, he'd go right through and nobody would even know she was there.  Now she's going home seen.  Okay? What do you think … He was unable to answer anything.  Are you awake, sir? Sir, please wake up.  And who was the worst? Who treated him the worst? Kamala.  Kamala.  She's another beauty.  She started off as a favorite.  She was at 15.  Then she went down to 14, to 12, to 10.  She was like a dropping rock in water.  She was going down so fast.  Then she went down to five and four and three, two, and then she said, "I got to get  You're going to find out on November 3rd it's no error.  As president, I always stand and I will always stand with the men and women of law enforcement.  They're great people.  They're very brave people.  Not easy, and they don't get support.  We have to give them back their dignity.  We have to let them do their job.  That's very simple.  They're great.  We're joined tonight by two high school football players.  They became very, very famous.  They became more famous than President Trump.  They were thing, we have to be treated fairly.  We have to be treated fairly.  We're not treated fairly by other nations.  We captured many, many ISIS fighters.  Most of them came from Europe.  They came from Germany.  They came from France.  They came from all of these countries.  And we called them, I called them myself in many cases, I said, "Take your fighters. " They said, "We don't want them.  You take them. " I said, "No, no, no, we did you a big favor.  They're citizens of Germany.  hair anytime.  I think I'm going to call her in.  Check it out, maybe you can do something.  Maybe you can improve it, it's not bad though.  I have friends that … I have friends my age, they're not looking too good.  Instead of standing up for America, Joe Biden and the Democrats, they condemn America and war is always waged on our great law enforcement.  We love our law enforcement.  Kamala Harris, that's another great beauty, Kamala Harris, that's a beauty.  Remember, I tell this story all the time.  When package of tax cuts and reforms in American history.  We've cut a record number of job killing regulations.  No president, no longer how long they serve, has gotten anywhere even close to what we've done with regulations, and that's one of the reasons our economy is so good.  And we have tremendous potential upward, and China wants to talk.  They want to talk.  China's lost three million jobs, thousands of companies are leaving China, the supply chain is crumbling because they can't pay the tariffs, and our country has taken over things that you would've and we're up good, but I'd love you to tie South Carolina.  What do we have to do? But a lot of activity in South Carolina also, they're doing great.  You had the best year you've ever had.  They've had the best year they ever had.  And you're going to go to a better year, we are going to have a better year.  We're also deeply honored to be joined by a military spouse, Amy Williams, who was reunited with her husband, Sergeant First Class Townsend Williams, at my State of the Union address.  be protected.  What they're doing is crazy.  And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.  And we will also protect you with preexisting physicians.  How about that? Preexisting physicians.  First time I've ever said that, just thought of that.  True.  Because under their plan, you don't get your own doctor.  You know what you get? Whatever the hell you get.  That's what you get.  Oh great doc, fix me up doc.  You mean you want to work on my heart? Who are you, doc? I don't think so. 37.  37.  Bill Baker.  Bill, come up.  Bill Baker.  Dave Christian, Ken Morrow, Jack O'Callahan, Mike Ramsey.  Those legs took a beating.  Mark Wells, Neil Brotton, John Harrington, Rob McClanahan, Buzz Schneider, Dave Silk, Phil Verchota, and a great coach and assistant coach at the time, Craig Patrick.  They said four more years, 12 more years left for them.  Look at that.  Look at the press.  Hey Mike, look at the fake news back there.  It's a lot.  I always say that's like the Academy Awards used They're after your Second Amendment.  We can't let that happen.  They want to indoctrinate your children, you know this, destroy anyone who calls traditional America American values.  All you have to do is ask the boys from Covington Catholic High School.  Some of whom are here tonight.  The far left wants to impose their authoritarian ideology on the nation, telling you what to think, what to believe and how you should live.  They want to erase our traditions, our culture, our history, and our heroes.  They want to subjugate you and break you There's something really … The only way we lose North Carolina and a couple of others like Nevada, we're doing great there.  Now the governor decides we're doing so well that they're going to send out unsolicited.  You have solicited and unsolicited.  They're going to send out millions of ballots to you.  People that never really thought in terms of it.  Now sometimes you'll ask for a ballot.  That's a solicited ballot.  It's okay, you have to go through a process, you have to sign the form, you get it.  Sending out be 35 years, and soon, I promise, will probably end up being better than ever.  I can tell you the unemployment numbers for women are the best they've been now in 72 years.  So, I always say kiddingly, "I'm sorry I didn't make it historic," but you know what? It's going to be historic very soon.  It'll be historic very soon.  And, here in North Carolina, over 230,000 more people now have jobs and small business formation has skyrocketed by more than 25%.  Amazing.  But, the radical democrats want to dismantle, demolish, and destroy  What difference does it make?" They said, "you're right. " 50 billion, I don't think our farmers can produce that much, but we're going to soon find out.  They're going to buy very large tractors.  After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country.  we are finally putting America first.  Or no issue of Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than the issue of immigration.  Before I came into office, the far left's policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning of the Supreme Court.  We have two great ones.  Great ones.  But they always say, "Judges and Supreme Court justices. " When you leave office, I hope in 5 years, 9 years, 13 years, 17 years, 21 years, 25 years, 29 years.  When I leave office… Now I'm only doing that to drive them totally crazy.  That drives them crazy.  Even joking about it.  We have this idiot comedian who stands up, he's talking to a guest, right? He said, "You know he's going to win, don't you? You know it. " The If I weren't president, you would either have an obliterated Second Amendment or it would be gone entirely.  I am standing between them and your Second Amendment.  And that's it.  That's it.  They know.  We put Baido in charge of guns.  Baido is in charge, he wants to get rid of everything.  Baido, that's a beauty.  Remember he said, "I was born for this. " Anybody that says they're born for this.  Remember Baido? He was on the cover of a magazine, I won't mention the magazine, they're back there.  incredible.  Thank you very much, great job.  Really great job.  And a man that should be your Governor, I don't know, he's doing well, but Lieutenant Governor, Dan Forest, everybody.  Thank you very much, great job.  Handsome guy, handsome.  Looks like Cary Grant.  I hear you're doing really well.  Look, I mean, this guy's got this state totally closed down.  It's ridiculous.  It's, when are they going to open? When are they going to open? Dan, this would have been opened up a long time ago.  And you would down the buildings.  Climb over each other's face, you can climb right over their face.  You don't have to wear masks, you don't have to do anything.  25,000 people walking down the street, looters, anarchists, agitators, burning down stores, throwing things at police.  They've taken the authority away from our police, our great police.  They've taken their authority and their dignity away.  We're giving it back, we have to, we have to.  By the way, I was endorsed by New York's finest and we're with them all the way.  I was just innocent man named Brett Kavanaugh, now Justice Brett Kavanaugh, Mitch refused to cave to the left wing mob.  And that's what it was, it was a mob.  There has never been a man treated so badly in Washington as Judge Kavanaugh, previously Judge, now Justice.  We got him in, and he's been great, and he will be great.  Mitch confirmed two tremendous Supreme court justices.  Mitch helped deliver the largest ever investment in our military and pass VA choice and VA accountability for our amazing veterans.  Now, I know Mitch's opponent because they came worst person I know, I know some beauties from New York.  I know some developers in New York actually.  Nobody would say what they said.  They made it up.  It was a made up statement, and they put it up in the form an ad, from a third-rate magazine, who's best friend is Obama, who, by the way, got caught spying on my campaign.  He got caught.  We caught him cold.  We have him cold.  Now let's see what happens.  Now the Republicans, it's interesting, we have much better policy, but Hoover dam.  That's a beauty.  Transformed the barren desert into a shining oasis, lit up the lights of the Las Vegas strip and help to make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth.  And we are making it greater than ever before.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep come to the United States.  People that weren't even thinking about it, they're going to say, "Oh man, these idiots are giving free healthcare, free college education.  They're giving free everything.  They're giving a Rolls Royce to every family that enters through the Southern border. " Remember I said that jokingly and CNN said, "He misrepresented.  They are not getting a Rolls Royce. " I agree.  Now they're sick.  They are sick.  And indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies.  They're doing that.  We're stopping it.  To combat the toxic reduce violent crime.  You see so much, and over the last 25 years so much crime, and ensure that every American can live in safety and peace.  And yet with all that you see, we've had one of the best years of crime prevention that we've ever had.  It wouldn't seem that way, but it is one of the best years because those gentlemen that we just saw, the law enforcement, they do a great job.  You've been reading about this a lot lately.  We are working very hard to make sure we keep guns didn't talk.  Past leaders followed the terrible advice of these editorial boards that are frankly totally inexperienced in business, I guess, and our industries were utterly decimated.  Globalism enriches foreign countries at our expense.  Globalism.  I love our country.  I'm the President of the United States of America.  I'm not the president of the the world.  As long as I'm president, America will never bow to a foreign nation like we were for so many years.  As we restore our prosperity, we are also restoring public safety.  We are fighting to necessary paperwork and documentation and you get the ballot and you fill it out, that's okay.  But you can't, this whole thing with the unsolicited, unsolicited means you're sitting there.  We have a big enthusiasm edge, but when they throw these things in your face and the lists are inaccurate and people are dead and dogs have gotten ballots, they have.  Dogs have gotten ballots and they know I'm right and everybody knows I'm right and they say I'm right behind the closed doors and it's a disgrace, what they do to our country.  80 million everything that you've gained, and they will do it, and it won't take that long.  And, that's why we need Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy.  We need them.  We need them going down.  We need them going down to congress and helping.  But, they can do it.  It's also why we need four more years.  It has to… See, it's like a plant.  We've changed things, right? Keep America Great.  We've changed things, but it's gotta grow.  It's gotta develop those roots.  And, once it does, it's going to us the biggest orders … Our farmers are very happy.  Our farmers are very happy.  Biggest order of corn, biggest order of beef, biggest order of soybeans, and I gave the farmers $28 billion because that's what you were targeted for by China and I gave you 28 out of the tariffs and we had tens of billions of dollars left over which went into the U. S.  Treasury but nobody's ever done this before.  Nobody's ever done this before.  With Biden it's the reverse.  His son goes, sits down for 10 minutes with say you can't do that.  You can't do that, you got to pay, NATO.  Now we're finally making immensely wealthy countries pay the cost of their defense, we're negotiating with a lot of them.  Think of it, we have these immensely wealthy countries and they're paying for a fraction of our cost to defend them.  How did that happen? And do you know what the biggest excuse is when I go to them and I'll say, "King, you got to pay," or, "Mr.  Prime minister, you got to pay," or, "Mr.  President, you've got is not used for good reasons.  And these stupid corporations … and they'll be the first to go if the radical left ever took … They'd throw those guys out like they were nothing.  If they were lucky, they'd just be thrown out.  It would probably be a lot rougher than that.  These people don't know what they're getting into.  But instead of giving money, they should give money to the families of the crime victims and the fallen officers.  That's what they should do.  So in the Republican Party, we know that and trillions of dollars.  That was actually, I think, designed to put us out of business, literally.  Biden has repeatedly surrendered your jobs to China and other countries.  This state lost 43% of all manufacturing jobs after the NAFTA and China disasters.  You know that.  You lost 43%, but I think the real number is 61%, by the way.  Biden says that this an election between Scranton and Park Avenue.  By the way, he left Scranton.  He likes to say, "I was born in Pennsylvania. " But he doesn't say he left. Thank you, Eric.  Good luck.  Good luck.  We're going to be out here helping you, too.  We're going to be out here.  I hope John doesn't even need help, but we're going to help John, too.  We're going to help all of you.  All right? We're going to be doing it.  Thank you.  Also with you is RNC Chairwoman.  She was the head of the whole state, and she kept calling me back, back.  "Sir, one more speech, you're going to win Michigan. " Hadn't been won in decades. wall right in Arizona.  We build a lot of wall.  That's a big one.  That's a big one.  Top of the line.  Before I came into office, the far left's policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning our children.  Including, as you know very well right here in Arizona, Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens.  They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border.  Then they want to give them a lifetime need a miracle to bring back manufacturing.  I brought back 650,000 jobs.  He said you'd need a miracle.  And now sleepy Joe is saying that, no, no, no.  I've got to bring back … He's not going to bring back anything.  I made history by signing an executive order making the official policy of the United States government to buy American and to hire American.  Now I did this long time ago.  And then I see a sign in front of Joe right here, right here, it said, buy American.  Oh great, is standing up for America, and standing up for the State of Wisconsin.  So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, get everybody and get out and vote, November 3rd.  From Milwaukee to Madison, from Oshkosh to La Crosse.  From Green Bay, how the Packers doing so far? Good team, good people, to right here in… Give me the proper pronunciation.  That's right, thank you, that's what I said.  We inherit the legacy of generations of Wisconsin Patriots, who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation.  our country.  Hourly earnings, listen to this, are up 9% since the election.  Nobody ever thought that was going to be happening.  Under the previous two administrations, we lost 60,000 factories.  I thought that was a typo.  I said, "How the hell can you lose 60,000?" It turned out to be right.  And you know how I know? Because I've been saying it for two years, and they never corrected me.  It's true, two years.  I get a call sometimes from the people in the campaign, "Sir! Sir, we have an emergency. done is actually a strong spot.  That includes you people, with the ventilators that nobody had.  Nobody that needed a ventilator, didn't get a ventilator.  Now we're supplying them all over the world.  Altogether, the nations of Europe have experienced a 30% greater increase in excess mortality than the United States.  Think of that.  You don't hear these numbers.  Cases in the US have declined by 28% nationwide over the last month, and hospitalizations and deaths have declined radically over the last week.  Three vaccines are in final stage of clinical trials. You know I said we've done the moon.  No, they say, sir, we land on the moon to go to Mars, and that's what we're doing with the moon.  And we are really, really advanced.  It's moving along rapidly.  We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  And above all, we will never stop fighting for the cherished values that bind us together as one America.  We support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes the hottest economy.  You know when I meet dictators, and presidents, and kings, and queens, and prime ministers, they all come into that beautiful Oval Office.  So beautiful, right? So respected.  And the first thing they almost always say, "Sir, congratulations on your economy.  We're trying to do the same thing. " I said, "You won't be able to do it.  You won't. " They won't be able to.  Let them give it a shot.  But they all say, "Congratulations on the great job you've done with economy. " But we've all done emoluments before.  Emoluments.  It's the craziest thing I've ever seen.  I tell you, it's cost me billions of dollars to be president.  It really has.  And at some point I'll probably to prove that, and I look forward to doing it. .  It's very easy.  It's very easy.  And there is nothing that makes me happier than making that decision to run and win and straighten out the mess that these people have created.  So in desperate attempt to attack our movement.  Nancy and Chuck, two beauties, have given control near your house you would've gotten one third of the price you got, Steve.  That's true, by the way.  Steve's too smart to let that happen.  We won't let them take it away from you.  We are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that shattered New Hampshire and your factories.  They shattered your communities and they shattered American power and American prestige all around the globe.  New Hampshire lost one in four manufacturing jobs following NAFTA and China's entrance into the Organization, two of the worst deals ever in the history of our world, I have every farmer in the country calling and saying, "Please don't do anything. " They're very, very smart, but we can never forget what China did to this country and did to the world.  The historic achievements that I've discussed today are only a slim fraction of the extraordinary accomplishment that we've all done together in the last four years.  Here's just a short list of our landmarks.  Really they are landmarks, true landmarks.  We instituted a national security travel ban on the world's most dangerous regions, including jihadist regions, keeping terrorists and extremists out position.  I had friends.  "Hey, Don, let's go to dinner. " "Okay.  Good, Richard.  I'll go. " Hey, Don, let's go. " "Okay, Larry.  I'll see you later.  I'll meet you at a restaurant in New York. " Everybody was nice and loose.  You could have a great conversation, and you don't want to know what we talked about.  It's just none of your business, but we were loose.  All of a sudden, I'd become president of the United States.  And these are a lot of … I know a violent people, but we've got it under control.  It always helps when you didn't do anything wrong.  I always say, "How do you impeach a President who didn't do anything wrong?" So we're going to send a signal by sending a terrific new Republican governor to Jackson.  On Tuesday, you're going to get out and you're going to vote, and you're going to give up whatever you have to give up.  You're going to leave work maybe a little early or maybe get there a little late.  Tell your boss I said it was okay. up for a vote by the Democrats.  But in my first week in office I proudly withdrew from that job destroying TPP catastrophe, and we're replacing one of the worst trade deals ever made by any country.  You can go back as far as you want, NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA.  So whatever you do, start talking to your people, we need a vote on the USMCA.  That's United States, Mexico, and Canada, and they've already voted.  They want it and we want it, and it's great for the farmers.  It's great for everybody. We need very sharp people.  I'm sorry.  Joe is not qualified for this position.  Joe calls for abolishing cash bail and closing your prisons.  He wants to close prisons, and he even called law enforcement the enemy recently.  You saw that? The enemy, until his polls started dropping.  Then all of a sudden, he said, "No, we love law enforcement. " I think I've gotten every major law enforcement group in the country, right? You saw recently, I got New York's finest.  And they are New York's finest, but they're not allowed to you with the red shirts.  So now the Democrats are making a pathetic bid to save sleepy Joe, sleepy Joe Biden.  And you know what? I'd love to run against him, to be honest.  Anybody like that.  If you can't beat him in a debate, you've got a big problem folks.  You can't beat him in a debate, you can't be president.  Because what are you going to do against President Xi and Kim Jong Un.  You can't beat sleepy Joe, but now we're going to meet with Kim Jong Un? I don't is an ultra liberal named Dan McCready, he wants to take away your guns, he wants to raise you taxes, he doesn't care about borders, he likes open borders.  And he really admires socialism, I don't think that works too well in North Carolina.  Doesn't work too well in our country.  We're joined tonight by the Republican candidate who is really a special man, a great man, he's going to be a great, great Congressman, Dan Bishop.  Dan? Thank you, Dan.  Thank you Dan.  And he will indeed defend your values, your family, and rid of the Washington Post and the failing New York Times.  We got rid of them, right? We don't have them in the White House.  I said, "No, you could … People can go out and buy them, but we don't" … We used to have them stacked up, and I'd go in and I'd see a meeting with my people and they're dealing with China, South Korea, or somebody.  And I'd go into these offices; I'd see 10 or 15 of them packed up all over the place, the Washington Post, and the New York Times. smaller.  It treats us horribly.  Barriers, tariffs, taxes, and we let them come in.  It's worse than China.  Many of us come from there.  I do.  That's what it's got going.  That's about it.  They treat us really badly, and many others, many, many others.  India tariffs us probably higher than any nation anywhere in the world.  We have tariffs of 100% on products and much more than that.  India.  So we're working on all of them.  I called Prime Minister Modi.  I said, "Mr.  was announced that Joe Biden is coming out of the basement.  Because the poll numbers have totally swung.  They totally swung.  And they've swung like nobody's ever seen them swing before.  And it was rapid.  It was a rapid swing.  Because they all admit that we're doing a great job.  There's not too many presidents that have done a job like we've done, including keeping you out of wars, bringing you home from the endless wars.  But they've swung.  But here's what I don't get.  Sleepy Joe's coming out he of it.  Chicago, the police in Chicago, they could do their job.  We don't even have to bring in the National Guard.  Whenever we do, it takes about 30 minutes, it's over, right? Like we did in Minneapolis, 30 minutes.  Remember that beautiful scene? They lined up, they went down, there was no social distancing in between these great, tough guys.  There was no social distancing, Tom Tillis.  They went down and they had $250,000 outfits.  They had more crap on that helmet with night goggles.  And these guys were sort of  Thanks to our campaign to combat the opioid epidemic with your governor's help, we have seen a 17% drop in overdose deaths in Kentucky, which is a record.  Democrats have also waged an unrelenting assault against people of faith.  Anybody in here a person of faith? Great people.  The last administration threatened adoption and foster care agencies purely for their religious beliefs.  Last week my administration took action to stop that Obama era assault.  It was an assault.  And governor Matt Bevin is a national leader on behalf of vulnerable children, and there Do you ever see where they drop the bricks along the thing in a bag? Then they drop, everyone picks them up, throws them at our great police.  We're not going to let that stuff happen, but this is all a Democrat.  It doesn't happen with Republicans.  I was with Greg Abbott.  I was with Ron DeSantis, Texas and Florida and other governors that can't even believe a thing like that could happen, but they get caught.  They're walking up.  There're like 30 cans of soup.  They have like 25 cans of tuna. the con jobs.  It's all a con job.  And so, they don't love our country, I swear they don't.  You look at Nancy Pelosi's district in San Francisco.  It was so beautiful, and now it's a disgrace, being watched all over the world.  Needles all over the place, everything else all over the place.  I'm not going to get into it, washing down into the ocean, washing down onto their beaches, people living in tents if they're lucky.  I mean you never saw anything, living on their most important entryways into what was risk, my administration is protecting your Social Security.  Remember they said, four years ago in the debates and you had this crazy woman.  I mean, I hate to mention her name.  I did it you know, yesterday.  I threw all the runs, hates it.  She's a zero.  It's got zero television personality.  Aero AB Stoddard, whoever that is.  She said, "Donald Trump lost all of his debates. " I won every debate and maybe, I don't know maybe one somebody, but I won with tremendous numbers.  He says, "You always won. of it, saved a lot of money for a lot of people.  And we're stopping surprise medical bills and making everything transparent.  That's bigger than healthcare transparency and that'll go unfortunately into effect right around the election time.  It would be nice if we could get it earlier, but it's all done.  It's all signed.  Because when providers are required to show you what the prices are, those prices are going to come tumbling down.  Blood tests as an example, one hospital has them for $53.  Another hospital, the same test, $2,415.  were the day before the election last time.  I really do.  You know, Elizabeth Warren- … sadly referred to, she of great Indian heritage.  Remember, I used to say, "I have more Indian blood in me than she has, and I have none. " I turned out to be right.  You look at what she's doing, you look at what she's saying, the lies, the deceit, the fraud, you see it all.  We are going to do so great.  It's got to be something that's going to be special.  It's going to be one terrorist, anywhere in the world, Qasem Soleimani.  We took them out.  Joe Biden opposed killing Soleimani.  He was vehemently… We killed this number one, terrorist.  He didn't like it.  You know why he didn't like it? Because he thought it would be good politically, that didn't work out too well.  Just as he opposed the raid that killed Osama bin Laden.  He opposed it, you know that.  Biden is always on the wrong side of history, as said by people that are with him and worked with him.  He never million people spread throughout the country that were criminal, illegal aliens.  Some of these are very violent people and we get them the hell out.  We're stopping human trafficking, protecting the victims, most of whom are women, most of whom are women.  Human trafficking because of the internet that's a tremendously big and horrible business.  These are the worst human beings of all.  But most of the victims are women, children to a much lesser extent, but women and human traffickers.  And you know what made it that way is the internet.  Who we win, I'll have a deal with the red within a month, watch, because they're dying to make a deal.  But that last hope that Biden will win, they will own our country, China, they will own our country.  We made such a great deal.  Last week they had the largest order of corn in the history of our country, the largest single order.  Then they did it again.  You know why they're doing that? Because they know I'm angry, because they know I don't care so much anymore.  We made a great trade  We're not going to buy it. " But don't send anything, don't put it in writing.  Please, general. " "Yes, sir. " "Thank you. " So about a week later, the head of Boeing called me up.  He said, "Look, we can get it down, but you're asking for too much. " I said, "You don't understand.  It has to have a three on it, not a four, but three. " So another months goes by.  I forgot about it.  I get a call from Boeing, "Would 3. 9 billion be okay?" I said, " Is that a fact? 175? I think he's on his way.  I think he's on his way.  Thank you Jeff, great job.  Thank you Jeff.  Thank you Jeff.  It's been a little bit of a story.  You see the fakers back there? Fake news.  Fake.  You know if another candidate has 1,000 people they say he spoke to a massive crowd.  If they have 10,000, like Pocahontas went into Central Park in New York.  This young men could have 10,000 people, you know that, in Central Park.  She you're not going to do something? And then somebody hits you with a perfect phrase.  He said, "Sir, price transparency is bigger than healthcare. " I said, "What do you mean by that?" He said, "You will see numbers that far outweigh healthcare, hospitals, doctors. " He said, "You'll be able to price out everything.  You'll be able to see costs. " He said, "Price transparency. " You know, people you've heard about this for 15, 20 years.  No president has the guts to do it.  Probably means I won't get campaign contributions from certain people, has totally … It's being run now by this crazy AOC plus three.  AOC plus three.  Now it's being run by other people.  The far left has just grabbed that party.  It is so sad to see.  And she knew what would happen.  I didn't, because I didn't figure the polls would go through the roof.  They went out today.  In Michigan, in Wisconsin, in a place called Pennsylvania.  No, no.  The polls are through the roof.  They're called swing states, very important states.  We won Pennsylvania the prize was because I stayed out of wars, and by the way, ended certain Wars that could have happened that you don't even know about.  And look what we did just yesterday in Europe, and look what we did with Israel, and you just saw that, with United Arab Emirates, and Bahrain.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  Now, after this is over, you'll have like at NBC, this third-rate reporter stand up.  They had a small crowd, a insignificant crowd, in a great defense.  He loves our military, loves our vets, and police.  He is a tireless champion for the state of New Jersey.  He loves your second amendment, which is under siege by the Democrats.  Jeff, it's an honor to be with you.  Please, please.  Thank you.  Thank you man.  We have tens of thousands of people outside.  If anybody would like to give them your place please let us know, but we have thousands and thousands.  Tens of thousands.  Jeff gave me a number, he said, "175,000 people signed up. amazing group of people, and with their help, and the help of everyone here, we are going to set records like we've never set before.  You know, I used to say, and I sort of still have to say, 2016, I don't know if anything like that can ever happen, but I think we're much better.  All of the things I said, "We're going to cut taxes.  We're going to cut regulations.  We're going to take care of our vets," look what we did for our vets, with choice, right? Look what we did.  Look they're loaded with pins.  One person had hundreds of pins.  They never would've had a pin in their life, but they love the job that we've done and we're going to do it even better in the next four years.  Another great friend of mine who's a tough cookie and a great Congressman.  But unfortunately he's a former because he's just, I don't know. , He's just a special guy and really has a big, beautiful heart, Lou Barletta, Lou.  You look good Lou.  Why don't you run again Lou? And a man who here.  They had the technology.  But we're ending the AIDS epidemic in America within 10 years.  Isn't that amazing? Whoever thought that was possible? Who would have thought that's possible? We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.  And above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one big beautiful America.  We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.  We believe in the dignity of sold out our workers.  You see it.  You know it better than any place.  When I talk about the horrors of NAFTA, the horrors of trade deals… I mean, I'm sorry to tell you this, I usually refer to New Hampshire.  Nobody took it worse than new England and nobody took it worse than New Hampshire.  Now, here's the good news.  I would never let that happen again and Chris will never let that happen again.  Is there a doctor, please? Doctor in the house? Thank you.  Doctor in the house.   He defended Justice Kavanaugh when he was treated so badly.  I've never seen anything like the treatment that Justice Kavanaugh received.  And, everybody respects him, and everybody likes him.  And, I like him, and we used to fight like hell, right? But, we don't fight anymore.  We like each other a lot, and he's a special man.  And, he's become a special friend.  Senator Lindsay Graham.  Another man who is a fighter… I guess we're all fighters.  You have to be a fighter or you're not going to be here very generations of tough, strong Pennsylvania workers, mine the coal, work the railroads, forge the steel that made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world.  And we are making it greater, greater, greater than ever before.  Not even close, not even close, it's what we're doing, we're doing it together.  Proud citizens like you, helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people, with your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, well or do we run it poorly? If we run it poorly everyone's going to blame me.  If we run it well everyone's going to give him credit, especially the fakers back there right? But you know what? We got to run it well but we're coming up with a healthcare that if we win the House we will have the best healthcare of any country in the world, by far.  We're fighting the lobbyists and we're fighting the special interest, in case you didn't notice.  We are serving only you.  Thanks to our bold reforms to millions of wonderful legal immigrants who work hard, pay their taxes, follow our rules, and obey our laws.  Yet there are those in Washington who would raid your healthcare to … Free benefits.  They want to fund free benefits to those who enter our country illegally.  We don't want to do that.  We don't want to do that.  Because if we don't do it, they won't come.  I will never allow politicians to take away your healthcare or give it to illegal immigrants.  My administration believes our first duty is to the time for Democrats to join with us to protect the sacred integrity of our elections by supporting voter ID, voter identification.  It's incredible.  They're constantly saying, "Oh, we need to protect them. " But they're not looking for that.  They're not looking for that.  We say, "What about voter ID? In other words, you have a picture, you have to go up.  What about voter ID?" That they don't want to do, but we need voter ID.  The Democrat party has never been farther outside the mainstream.  Where do they come from? You ballots.  I don't like it, you know you have a Democrat governor, you have all these Democrats watching that stuff.  I don't like it.  I look at these crowds and if they're going to cheat crowds are meaningless.  Really, if they're going to cheat, these big beautiful crowds, you could have 15,000, you could have 50,000, these crowds are meaningless.  Watch it, be poll watchers when you go there.  Watch all the thieving and stealing and robbing they do.  Because this is important, we win North Carolina, we win.  We're going to it's about one thing.  You know what the one thing is, you.  It's about you.  It's about your family.  It's about your future.  And it's about the fate of your country.  So when we ran together last time, we said the most importantly we had to turn it around.  This country was going bad.  You see what happened to Venezuela with socialism? Venezuela 15 years ago was one of the richest countries.  Now they don't have water, they don't have food, they don't have anything.  And this was one of We can fire them now.  They've been trying to get that for 44 years, Joyce had been trying to get practically from the beginning, Joyce's so simple and yet they never got it, nobody got it through.  We're good at getting things through.  We've done more than we said we would.  A man I know, who I don't like, a businessman, very, very, very successful, one of the most successful but I don't like him, never liked him.  He never liked me, by the way.  In fact, I would go a step further, he And they know they can't win, so let's try and impeach him.  How about that crazy representative, Al Green, right? "You know, we got to impeach him because we can't beat him. " I don't think so.  Right? I don't think so.  Al Green, he's another beauty.  The Democrats, the media, and the deep state are desperate to stop us.  And it's not me, it's us.  It's all of us.  It's 63 million, but it's much more than 63 million.  Much more.  And right now, our numbers are higher than they've of so-called peaceful protesters cramming into your streets, mugging people, hurting people, robbing stores, looting stores, burning down storefronts.  The radical left will do anything to get power.  They smear justice, Brett Kavanaugh, and they are … Did you see anything like that? Justice Kavanaugh.  People forget.  Time goes by, they forget.  We don't forget.  I don't forget.  They're destroying the livelihoods of innocent people and if Biden wins, which I honestly can't believe can happen.  I will have lost to a low IQ individual.  I don't want that.  I it.  Now they don't want it, you know why they don't want it? For political reasons, and you know what, it's going to cost them a lot of points in the election, I think probably cost them the election itself.  Just lastly, Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities which release violent criminal aliens onto our streets.  Where we just picked up these 22 thugs, these 22 monsters, we just picked him up in, where, Los Angeles.  Sanctuary city, wonderful sanctuary city.  Thom Tillis senator recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to to be.  This year, we had a movie, they said best movie, they announced the movie from South Korea.  I said, what's that all about? The movie was made in South Korea.  Look, I get along great with South Korea, but you know, I never saw that one before.  They used to go best foreign movie, but now we do it that way.  I don't get it, but that's what it used to be and this is really an incredible time.  I'll tell you what, for our country, that's why I like to see  But we're now putting America first.  It's very simple.  For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations, and really, the most corrupt special interests anybody's ever seen.  To ship our jobs and our factories to other countries.  We lost our taxes, we lost our workers, we lost our companies, and we did nothing about it.  Now we've done a lot about it because companies are pouring back in.  America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA, the worst deal ever made, worst trade deal ever made, President who apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great state of Ohio.  So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your co-workers, get everybody, and get out and vote.  Got to get out and vote.  And in your state, in Ohio, early voting has already begun and don't wait.  And when you see them cheating on the other side, I don't say if, when, when you see them cheating with those ballots, all of those unsolicited ballots, those millions our nation.  Look, I can make this speech really short.  All I have to do is say, "Hello Iowa, you have no choice.  You have to vote for me.  Otherwise everything that you've built in your entire life will be gone.  Goodbye Iowa, have a good time. " Instead I work my ass off up here, okay? Yeah.  True.  Do you think this is easy? It's a little hot in this room.  This room wasn't designed for this many people.  If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations it's the single most brilliant campaign in the history of the world.  Because they took a man who's got nothing.  He didn't have it, but he's got nothing, and I will give them credit.  The single greatest campaign in history, if he wins, but you know what? If he wins, North Carolina is screwed, and so is every place else.  And you can forget your tobacco industry, you can forget your farmers.  I gave the farmers $28 billion.  Thank you very much, Presidency.  $28 billion.  Because you were targeted, right? You were radical left judge, I will soon be announcing that nominee.  You're going to love it.  You're going to be so happy.  If you don't love it, don't vote for me.  Okay? You don't like it.  My opponent refuses to release a list of justices.  I was told that a big thing when I was running last time, nobody really knew me.  They knew me very well.  We had great success at The Apprentice and in business and it was great, but they never knew what kind of a judge I would pick to me before the speech, "Sir, would you like to salute each cadet, each single cadet? Or maybe there'll be in groups of two.  Would you like to salute? Like this? Yes. " Like this, almost 600 times.  You know what that is? 600 times.  Thank God they were in twos because let me tell you, you do that 600 times, you go home and you say it's like a workout without a weight, right? 600 times.  So I did that.  Then the incredible helicopters, brand new gorgeous helicopters, the Apaches and the other new can't be too stupid, because they actually think it's working.  I saw one of these so-called comedians the other day and he's a pretty respected comedian, he said, he's not leaving.  I'm telling you, he's not leaving, he'll never live.  He'll win this election and in 24′, I'm telling you, he's not leaving.  He's going to stay.  So we did through our friend Dan Scavino, we did a Time Magazine cover.  I was on so many times, I don't even read this thing, and it says, Trump, 2014, 2018.  But it says 20 than Ronald Reagan. " And now he's got me down as the greatest president in the history of our country, including George Washington and Abraham Lincoln.  Thank you.  We love you too.  But we didn't fight them over there only to invite them over here.  We didn't do that.  We're not doing that.  You see what we're going and you see what we're doing and you see it's never easy because I get hit by the swamp 15 different ways, but it doesn't matter.  We're doing the right thing to protect our communities. very much commissioners.  All Democrats.  Hopefully they'll put it up for a vote.  Nancy Pelosi, they put it up for vote.  It's going to be very popular.  The Republicans love it, and the Democrats love it, and frankly, labor loves it.  Unions love it.  Farmers love, love, love it, and everybody wants it.  Your farmers, your ranchers, everybody wants it.  It's an incredible agreement.  And Mexico's already passed it, and Canada's ready to pass it, soon as we do.  See, they don't maybe trust us, that's why.  They blue collar boom.  It's very nice.  It's about time.  It's about time.  It's been many, many decades.  Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10%, first time ever.  Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased, listen to this, by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%.  Median household income is at an all time high.  For President Bush, in eight years it was $450, over eight years.  Think of this for a second. Independent voters and voters I think of all of the voters, including Democrats moving over, we just got a 195 to nothing, the Republicans in the house, which was a fix.  Nancy Pelosi says it must be nonpartisan.  And she said, it has to be clear cut.  Well, number one, never happened.  No problem.  Number two, look at the vote.  Three Democrats voted with us.  So I guess you could say it was a nonpartisan vote because they voted with us, okay? But we're going back and we're going to hold the Senate. wasn't that they were going to extend her tenure as Attorney General.  She was a real beauty.  I'm sure it wasn't.  I'm sure it was nothing.  They spent 45 minutes on the plane talking about golf and their grandchildren.  Right? Can't let it happen, folks.  Can't let it happen.  We can't let it happen.  You fought the battles and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth, and we are making it greater every single day than ever before.  Great, great, great citizens like forget.  We were starting… Success brings people together.  It was so good.  Our jobs numbers were so good.  And whether it was the Black community, the Hispanic community, the Asian community, our jobs were so good, our numbers were so good.  We were getting together and then the plague came in and we had to stop.  We had to close it up.  We had to open it and start all over again.  If you would have told me that we have one of the highest stock market, some of the stock markets presidential races, Michigan hadn't been won in decades, and she kept saying, "Could you come back, sir?" I didn't know who she was.  I said, "Who the heck is the woman in Michigan that keeps asking?" She said, "Sir, if you keep coming back, you're going to win Michigan. " Hasn't been won in decades.  And I won Michigan.  Remember that great, great night? November.  That great, great night.  "Donald Trump has won the great state of Michigan. " And they were going crazy on television.  They were going, that was not a good right now, 15? They won't tell you the truth.  They won't tell you the truth.  MSDNC, MSDNC is worse than CNN.  They're owned by a company called Comcast.  You can have Comcast, a bunch of phonies.  But MSDNC is worse than CNN, and they're all pretty bad.  You know, they just came out with a poll.  They just came out with a poll a little while ago.  Mini Mike was at 15, and crazy Bernie was at 31.  That's a lot.  And mini Mike just spent $500 million.  But  So, New Hampshire was the first state I won.  Right? Remember, I came here.  I was very excited.  That was an exciting evening.  That was an exciting race, but we don't talk about that anymore.  We have to talk about the future.  We don't talk about it.  That was great.  It was important.  We've done more than any administration in its first three and a half years in the history of our country.  That's despite phony witch hunts, phony investigations, a phony impeachment based on a phone call that is the most important election in the history of our country.  I wouldn't say that lightly.  And frankly, I thought the last one was, and I said it, but they've gone to a level that nobody even thought possible.  These people have gotten stone cold, crazy.  And you know what? After we get in, we're going to have tremendous success.  And it was building.  We were at a point, we were so successful before the plague came in from China.  We were so successful that we were starting to get together.  People what's happening to Democrat-run cities, every single one of them.  We are going to lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.  With your help, we will elect for Republicans to Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration.  We will enact great deals that result in more products probably stamped with the four beautiful words made in the USA, made in the USA.  You want made in America, I don't care, what do you like better? Made in america or made in "Get me out of here.  Get me out of here. " And now he wants to buy his way back into the Democrat party.  He wants to buy his way back into the Democrats.  He hasn't taken enough abuse.  If I were him, I'd sort of either ride it out or stay with the good Trump economy and get even richer.  Biden's running made even urged supporters to help the bail riders out of jail.  You saw that? Including one who attempted to murder a police officer and a man accused of sexually assaulting right guy.  I think the guy that you want is Tate Reeves.  He's going to be fantastic.  He will be a great, great governor.  Tate, come on up.  Tate.  Thank you, Tate.  Tuesday, go out and vote for Tate.  He'll never let you down.  And don't kid yourself.  Your Second Amendment is under attack, but not with him.  It's under attack.  So we're also joined tonight by a man who is truly, and I've sort of said it a lot, but he's been a great governor and he don't.  They don't have a clue.  They just know they're being ripped off, and a lot of Bernie people feel that.  That's a big point and they came over and they voted for me instead of Crooked Hillary which was a very nice thing.  We appreciate it, we hope we don't lose it.  Because we've really implemented things.  We've taken in billions and billions and billions of dollars for China, from China, and China's never given us $0. 10.  It's a one-way street with China.  They haven't given us … We signed left, all of these places I talk about are Democrat, you know that, every one of them, every one of them.  And I'd have an offer out, I said, "Anytime you want we'll come in, we'll straighten it out in one hour or less. " Now I may be wrong, but it's probably better for us to just watch that disaster.  I flew in with some of our great congressmen, who we're going to introduce it a second.  And I said to them, "Congressmen, what do you think? I can straighten it out fast, should we just like to ask him.  And I said that, "We want a drug test, we want a drug test.  We'll both take it.  We'll both take it. " Because with Bernie he was able to get through.  But listen, it wasn't Winston Churchill.  This wasn't the greatest, but he got through, it was fine.  Him and Bernie screaming at each other, mostly Bernie.  Crazy Bernie.  He's not too happy.  I'll tell you, did you ever see a better loser than Bernie though? Seriously.  He's a good loser.  He got terribly have turned this big, beautiful, mighty ship, we have turned it around, it's getting better, better, better.  Together we will continue on unleashing the power of American enterprise so every American can know the dignity of work and the pride of a paycheck positive vision for our nation's future.  We love our nation, our nation is great today.  It's going to be much greater, every year it's getting better, and better.  We have turned this big, beautiful, mighty ship, we have turned it around.  It's getting better, better, better.  Together we will continue unleashing the same.  But he said he's not ever going to become president and Strzok look back, "No, no, he won't.  We'll stop it.  We'll stop it. " Can you believe we found these texts? This is FBI agents at a high level.  "No, no.  We'll stop it. " They're going to stop us from winning an election and then we have to listen, "There was no bias.  Oh, there was no bias. " Think of these people, they write here was no bias.  And yet he saying, "No, no, darling, we'll stop it. back into shape.  He actually looks better now than he did before he got shot.  Steve Scalise.  Lot of guts.  Your NRCC Chairman, Mr, Tom Emmer.  Congressman, thank you.  Tom Emmer.  Thank you, Tom.  And Representatives Mark Meadows.  Did anybody ever hear of Mark Meadows? These are warriors.  Matt Gates.  Matt.  Whoa! Not bad, Matt.  That's not bad.  Mike Johnson, great lawyer.  Mike Johnson.  Thank you, Mike.  And a man with a very familiar last name, Greg Pence, the brother of Mike.  the call was totally different than what the call was.  So when I released the call, when I released the transcripts, they died.  They said, "Oh we got a problem. " They never thought I was going to do it, but I had no choice.  I had to because I had to show they're liars.  But think of it, they can take something like that, a perfect phone call, or they'll take just out of thin air they can make something up.  And they ended up today, front page, New York Times.  They used the cost of prescription drugs.  We just did favored nations.  We're going to come down to the lowest price anywhere in the world because we did a favored nations clause.  You know what that is? We will… The drug companies don't exactly like me too much.  They're spending millions of dollars on negative commercials.  Please understand when you see those commercials, it means your drug prices are coming down.  We will strongly protect Medicaid and Social Security, which they will give up.  And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions and America And then they said the evening of the election, "It's going to be a really short night for Donald Trump.  Thank God, we got rid of this guy. " Because they did the exit polls going out, right? And I was even told, but a lot of people didn't want to talk about it.  The highest number in history of people that said very nasty language, but I'm not going to use that name because you'll kill me if I use it.  So I won't use it.  It's a much better story if I use it it's all about the benjamins.  Not a good thing to say.  So that's Omar.  That's Omar.  And by the way, many other things, all you have to do is press the right button on your beautiful screen, and you'll see thing after… You didn't hear this over the last two days or did you hear anybody talk about this? Her colleague Representative Rashida Tlaib, agreed with Omar's characterization of 9/11 and said that members of Congress who support Israel forgot, what country they represent.  And Tlaib also used the F word to describe the presidency what's happening.  NASA is again the leading space station anywhere in the world.  There's nothing like a space center, what we've done.  And there was grass growing in the runways when I took over three and a half years ago.  We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education.  We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, "In God we trust. " For years, you had a in Ohio with thousands of hardworking, loyal, great American patriots … days from now.  Can you believe it, 43 days? We go to again win Ohio.  I understand from Bob Paduchik, you know Bob? That we're going to win it by more than we did.  Whether we win at nine, we won by nine points.  I just came into that big, beautiful place.  It's got more televisions in any plane in history.  They've got televisions and closets and bathrooms on the floor, on the ceilings.  I just saw that we're tied in Ohio. of went back to some old ways because they don't want to be shut down any longer.  Joe, don't you understand that? They don't want to be shut down.  So I worked very hard on that for this state and for other states, but this was a state that was so severely impacted with the drug problem.  That wall is stopping them and it's stopping them like never before.  It's stopping them like never before.  I want to thank New Hampshire for all you've done for me.  I want to thank New Hampshire.  in value.  And China has lost trillions of dollars in value.  I will say this, if our opponent had won that election, you know what would have happened? Right now China would become the … It would be the number one economy anywhere in the world.  And right now I can tell you they're not even close.  Our country is stronger than ever before because we are proudly putting, for the first time in a long time, we are putting America first.   cops love Trump, Trump loves cops.  Our bold pursuit of this never say that anymore.  It's terrible.  They were saying it when they thought I wasn't going to win, but we were ahead right from the beginning.  … I said, "Bob, let me ask you, just out of curiosity, I don't have these people.  The leaders are not with us.  Is that good or bad?" He said, "Sir, it's great.  You just went up three points, would you believe this, by not having it?" He said, "Don't worry, sir, you're going to win," and we won by a lot.  Now, I understand we're up  Everyone's talking about it.  We have plenty of other countries going to join and there's no blood in the sand.  Okay.  Thanks honey.  Thank you.  Great people.  Thank you, Sean.  Thank you, Sean.  We have spent the last four years reversing the damage that Joe Biden inflicted over the last 40.  They like Sean.  Sean, will you please win? Sean Parnell.  I'll tell you, he's popular.  That's great, Sean.  We love Sean.  But Biden championed every globalist portrayal of Pennsylvania for half a century, he getting jobs and employers are loving them.  They're doing great.  They're doing great.  They are doing great first time ever.  They're not going back.  To uphold the rule of law, we have confirmed 191 federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written.  And as you know, we've also confirmed two great new Supreme Court justices.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Grant.  Thank you, Lindsey.  Thank you.  We have invested $2. 2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, as I said, and I love saying it because  Really.  It was a difference between having farmers that are doing well and having no farmers.  28 billion over two years, they got hit one year, 16 billion, one year 12 billion.  I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, great guy, an ex-farmer, governor of Georgia for eight years, great guy.  I said, "Sonny, how much are they being targeted for?" He said, "Sir, $12 billion for the year before, and last year sir was 16. " So I said, "28, okay, that's fine. " I said, "We will give them 28 billion.  Let them have it. " We sat down with a great group of leaders, Republican leaders, and honestly, we had some bipartisan support and we got it done.  They've been tried to do it for 45 or so years.  We got it done.  You have to see the results, and I've seen some of the results.  Some of the results are incredible.  We've transformed veteran's health care, including through VA choice, right? VA choice.  For 48 years they've been trying to get veterans choice.  I thought I had the greatest secret.  You said, "You know, the people are pouring in. " They needed it.  They're pouring into San Diego, like going all over the place.  And people that had houses, they didn't like people running over their gardens all day long, coming in from the other side.  So we put up a wall, and I thought everybody would be happy.  As soon as it was finished, the day it was finished, I was notified.  We didn't want the wall.  Why did you do the wall? And I will tell you, in other words, it's all a be running the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security and the United States Supreme Court.  And you see what's going on there.  If we don't … The next president, hopefully it's going to be us, not me, us, but the next president is going to have one, two, three or four Supreme Court justice.  It's just, you know, just that time, right? Just that time, going to be a minimum of one, I would say, but it will be a one, two, three or four.  And that's going to change the whole makeup of some of them had to be down to like at 91% and they didn't have many people and I can't really show up because many of those people are now great friends of mine.  Some of them are great Republican senators.  I'm not going to show results, but I'm holding it up just quickly glancing.  I call it a glancing blow, but we won the debates and I have this fake news person saying, "Donald Trump did very poorly in the debates. " I want every debate easily.  I never did it before.  Remember my And we're trying to get Big 10 football by the way, but we won't even.  Michigan, what she's doing to Michigan is unbelievable.  Take a look at what they're doing to Pennsylvania.  And here's another governor in charge of millions of ballots.  So I'm going to win Pennsylvania, but what's he going to do with these ballots? Where are they going? Who are they sending? Who's sending it back? Who's signing? They don't even have to have an authorized signature in Nevada.  Do you know that? They don't have to have … You don't have well.  I watched Westchester in New York where they were doing things that should never have been done, and it's not going to happen to our suburbs.  They want to erase your borders and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in our schools.  Not going to happen.  Not going to happen.  For the last four years, they've tried everything to stop us, and they are only getting more desperate by the day.  Can you imagine if on September 3rd, they say, "Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has been declared the winner.  Donald the Trump administration, we will always protect American families first, and that has not been done in Minnesota.  We've also implemented the strongest screening and vetting mechanisms ever put into place.  We are keeping terrorists, criminals and extremists the hell out of our country.  And I want to thank the country of Mexico.  The president of Mexico has been incredible.  We have now, 27,000 Mexican soldiers.  They're great, and they're tough, and they are now protecting our border, and those numbers have gone down like this.  Thank you Mr.  President.  We are going to get, and the Democrats would never do it, Biden would never do it because he doesn't understand it, but they would never do it.  They would in a million years, they wouldn't do it.  It took a lot of guts to do it.  I had a lot of people, a lot of good politicians go, "Sir, I don't think you should do it. " I wonder why you're saying that, but we did it.  We're going to have drug prices reduced over a very short period of time, by not 2%, and last it because everybody saw it.  This was a steel ramp.  It had no handrail, it was like an ice skating rink, and I said, "General, I have a problem," and he didn't understand that at first.  I said, "There's no way. " He understood, I just saluted almost 600 times.  I just made a big speech.  I sat for other speeches.  I'm being baked.  I'm being baked like a cake.  I said, "General, there's no way I can make it down that ramp without falling on my ass, General.  I have Did everybody see this? They're saying they didn't have a clue what they were doing.  It was so bad.  I don't know why the hell he said it, to be honest with you.  Who would say that? Maybe because he was honest.  Does that make sense? Now Biden gets up and he's saying to do the same things as we've already done.  He basically took our plan and he said, "This is what you should do. " But we have among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country in the world and the products.  We're not going to stand for it, and man, did we turn things around and we've just started.  If companies don't want to pay a tariff, I have one simple solution.  Come make your product in America.  Come make your product in New Hampshire.  Zero tariffs.  Zero.  No tariff.  Together we're restoring this nation's industrial might and we are doing it with American iron, American aluminum, and American steel.  We're doing it steel.  Steel industry is high.  They were dumping steel all over.  They were destroying our loves your state.  He loves the people of this great state, Governor Phil Bryant.  Where's Phil? Come up, Phil.  Come up.  Oh, he's central casting.  Look at him.  Come here, Phil.  Thank you, Phil.  Thank you.  Thank you, my Phil.  What a job.  What a great job.  You have to continue that whole thing going forward.  So another man who's a warrior is a friend of mine.  Whenever there's a problem, he's there.  He's always there.  He'll be right at the front.  He have done this?" If you didn't … If you had no business instinct, no business ability, if you had nothing, if you're dumb as hell, you wouldn't make these deals, they're so bad.  I say, "Who made these deals? Who made these deals?" But we're ripping them all up and redoing them and they're going to be very good.  Wait until you see what happens.  Now that I'm your president, you see it.  America is winning again and we're respected again as a nation.  A brand new report just came out as I'm walking on a terrible, terrible thing and we got to solve it.  Most of it comes through, in this country, our southern border where we don't have the wall.  They're not going through our points, they're not going through areas where we have security, where we have guards, where we have gates, where we have all sorts of equipment, no, they ride through the desert and they make a left where you don't have the wall.  It's so simple, everybody knows it.  The Democrats all know it because five years ago before I was here, they all wanted and we have to do a little tariff action on them.  So we stopped that.  We're reversing decades of the Biden betrayals that decimated Pennsylvania jobs, you know that.  This state lost, listen to this, one in three manufacturing jobs after the twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the World Trade Organizations, one of the worst things that happened, when China came in.  They were flat-lined for many years, then they came into this crazy deal.  They're considered a developing nation, you see I've been sort of protesting that like, but they're considering  He'd raise your taxes.  He'd raised the hell out of interest rates.  He'd do everything wrong.  The Biden shutdown will permanently destroy the lives and dreams of tens of millions of Americans, inflict totally lasting harm on our children and lead countless deaths from suicide.  Don't forget when you do these shutdowns, your state is shut down.  You got a governor.  You shut down, except if you have a riot.  You're not shut down for riots.  Riots, you can have, they can burn the hell out of the Strip.  They thought she was left for… I mean, there were just little embers, and then she rose.  She rose, then she became strong.  But then she opened that fresh mouth of hers and it stopped.  It stopped.  I don't see her as a threat.  I don't think she makes it.  I mean, you don't know.  Crazy things are happening in the Democrat party.  It used to be a sane party.  Now it's an insane party.  So you don't know.  But they're all looking at the same thing.  I mean, the travel ban. " These are very dishonest people.  Do you understand that? Very dishonest people.  In the Republican party, we believe that those who seek to join our society must embrace our values, honor our history, and love our people.  Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities, which release dangerous criminal aliens into the heart of your communities, and we're not letting it happen anymore.  Republicans believe American cities should be sanctuaries for Americans, not for criminal aliens.  My administration is taking historic action to secure the border.  We have reduced illegal border crossings of a sudden we never heard from the second whistleblower.  We never heard about who the informer was.  The whistleblower who's going to come out strong, he's disappeared.  Where's the whistleblower? He's disappeared.  He's gone.  Maybe our great Congressman can find him.  He's gone.  Maybe our great Congressmen can find him.  Okay? But the whistleblower is gone.  He flew the coop because he reported incorrectly, and the IG, who didn't want to look at the conversation, he was so anxious to turn the whistleblower report over to Congress so that Congress which nobody's ever seen before.  Jared Kushner.  Thank you, Jared.  Thank you.  And Kimberly, thank you so much.  I heard your speech on the plane on the way in.  I was very impressed.  And did Don Jr.  make a good speech? Come on.  They're good kids.  They went through a lot with this hoax, I want to tell you.  They went through a lot with the hoax.  Helping us was the RNC chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel.  Great job.  I said, "Get me the woman from Michigan to I hate to say it.  I'm the only thing standing between you and chaos, I'm telling you.  And Second Amendment and all of the other things.  Biden's justices will remove the words "under God" from the Pledge of Allegiance.  Did you see that? Did you see it? They said, "No, we'd never remove.  And I saw it, they're doing the Pledge of Allegiance.  And I said, "Oh, it must be a typo. " They left the words "under God" out of the Pledge of Allegiance, the Democrats.  And I said, "Oh, there's a war.  "This is a friendly …" What are they doing? How does that help to be like that? How does that help? We're joined tonight by some really great friends of mine and some warriors that have been a fantastic help to me.  One man who, especially over the last year, he has been so great, he couldn't be better.  And I think he's doing very well.  I'm looking at some numbers, and you're doing very well.  And I think your opponent has some very big problems.  Senator Tom Tillis.  Thank you, Tom. hysterical and xenophobic.  If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died from the China plague.  Biden was willing to sacrifice American lives on the altar of open borders.  And now Joe Biden is once again hurting innocent people with his dangerous anti-vaccine conspiracy theories, putting millions of lives around the world at risk.  And the only reason he's doing that is he knows we're right next to having a vaccine.  So, he wants to belittle the vaccine because he doesn't want us to get credit plant, who converted their people are starting to figure that out.  Better healthcare.  And we'll also always protect… You have to remember this, you ready, because they give us a bum rap.  Patients with preexisting conditions are protected by Republicans much more so than protected by Democrats who will never be able to pull it off.  Preexisting conditions, and you know, the job we've done on healthcare, it's not talked about, but we're also doing something.  It's been phenomenal, we have 180 million people right now really happy on private plans, and you know what, they're going to be economically in the history of our country.  When China joined the World Trade Organization, they were flat line for decades.  They became like a rocket ship.  He voted for the war in Iraq.  He voted for mass amnesty for illegal aliens.  He supports sanctuary cities and now Biden wants to end immigration enforcement and he wants to require you to provide free healthcare for millions and millions of illegal aliens.  When I took early and decisive action to ban travel from China and protect Americans from the virus.  And as I said, Joe may grab you so fast. " Because I can't fall with the fake news watching.  If I fall, if I fall, I remember when President Ford fell out of the plane, do you remember? I remember when another president, nice man, threw up in Japan, and they did slow motion replays.  It's true, right? "I don't want that, general. " Now he's standing there, big strong guy, and he's got these shoes but they're loaded with rubber on the bottom because I looked, the first thing I did, I looked at his shoes.  Then I looked at I wasn't running.  It makes a difference.  Wait you see what happens.  We're going to take back the house.  We're going to get rid of this crazy Nancy Pelosi.  Kevin McCarthy's done a great job.  We're going to take back the house.  People are so tired of her.  People are so tired.  Did you hear today? The latest.  So, they impeached me for perfect phone call.  Perfect.  It was a perfect phone call.  Now they want to impeach me again if I nominate somebody as I'm constitutionally the Republicans, they don't fight like Colby.  You know who Colby is.  You're going to say hello to Colby.  They don't fight like Colby.  They don't fight to win.  Better policy, but they don't have that vicious streak.  If this were reversed, they would be in jail for two years already, and it would be for a 50-year term for treason.  That's what it would be.  Okay? But Biden's too scared to stand up to the crazy socialists and never will.  He'll never have the strength, and he's going downhill fast. all the computers, and all the everything changes every day, you invent a new cell, you invent a new laptop.  Everything is obsolete like about two weeks after you invent it, right? Two things that will never get obsolete, the wall and the wheel, right? The wheel and the wall.  Maybe I'm wrong, who knows? But I would say walls and wheels have a great future.  We ended catch and release, stopped asylum fraud, and we've deported 20,000 gang members, including the radical MS-13.  We invested $2. 5 trillion in the United States Military, all made that I could tell you.  So then my wife said, "Well it wasn't only the ramp.  Did you have water?" I said, "Yeah.  I was speaking for a long time.  I didn't want to drink it, but I wanted to wet my lips a little bit. " You're drinking, you're working hard up there with the sun pouring down on you.  I love this location, the sun's like this.  This way they save on lighting, right? That's why they did it probably.  So what happens is I said, "What does it have to home.  I ended the last administration's eight year pure war on Pennsylvania oil, and coal, and fracking.  If you look at the natural gas, what they've done to this state, what they were doing to this state.  It was sort of easy.  I just opened it up and I said, "Do it. " And the investment put into Pennsylvania, the investment put into the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has been record setting.  But again, you had the greatest year you've ever had last year prior to the virus.  You're going to be set.  Now you.  Go ahead.  How about you? Yeah.  We'll talk to you later.  Right to try.  You have no idea.  So many people, they used to travel all over the world to get a cure.  Now, we can sign a quick simple document.  It sounds easy, it wasn't, but it was easy for me.  I understood it.  Now, you signed a document.  We give you the greatest medicines even if they haven't been approved.  If somebody's terminally ill, like in the case of your wife, if somebody's terminally ill, plan, it's the people that tell them what they're going to do, so please understand.  I just don't want to say that every time I mention his name.  So it should say, "The people that control Biden's plan" is to appease domestic terrorists.  My plan is to arrest them, to lock them up.  If Joe Biden is elected, far left lunatics won't just be running failed Democrat city, they'll be running the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, and the United States Supreme Court, and we can't let that happen.  No city, town, one young woman is smiling, "Hi, Hi, Hi, Hi.  I just like to ask you, I'm sorry to bother you with this question. " It's the most incredible.  So the doctor wrote a letter saying, "No, this rumor is wrong. " And I don't like, rumors like that.  And by the way, if it were a fact, it's fine, it should.  I think it's an important thing.  But if it's not true, my wife was like, she came to me, she said, "I think I would have known that. " I said, "Yeah, I think He wanted to stay back.  I said, "You sure you don't want to come?" "I do want to come, but I really want you to win today, if you don't mind. " I said, "Okay, you better stay back.  If I see you here I'm going to be very angry. " And they did their job, didn't they? This man is from the great state of Ohio, Congressman Jim Jordan.  We're going to do this quickly, but it's just important that you get out and vote, they're two great people.  I want to introduce the next Nobody fights harder than I do.  But there's a time, and there's not necessarily a time.  But I send these letters out, quite a few.  And sometimes I send letters out, it's called blue on green, where we're teaching people how to fight and then they turn the gun on our soldiers and shoot them in the back.  And that's the hardest thing for a parent.  I have all of them.  I know everyone.  That's the hardest thing for a parent when they get notification, because they learn how their child has died. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal.  It was no good and we oppose the toughest ever sanctions on the Iranian regime.  Watch how that works out, folks.  That'll be very good.  I recognized Israel's true capitol and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.  And don't forget what I did for Israel with respect to Golan Heights.  Don't forget, right? For years, you watched as your politicians apologize for America.  Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for New assaults on law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities and neighborhoods and ban sanctuary cities.  We will kill our terrorist's enemies as we've been doing while keeping America out of the endless foreign Wars.  I go to Dover and I greet these incredible families of soldiers that have been so sadly killed.  So sadly killed.  It's such a shame.  I go to the hospital, I go to Walter Reed Medical Center.  It's incredible.  The doctors are so talented.  I see what they can do, but soldiers so badly hurt.  good.  And he was saying how the police aren't being allowed to take care of this rally, and yet with President Obama and Bush and all these people, they were fine, fine.  Everybody comes.  They fall asleep at a rally.  But they weren't allowed to do the job for us, and they went wild.  So what I want to do… Go home to Mommy.  Mommy says, "I saw you on television tonight.  I love Trump.  Don't you ever do that again. " "Yes Mom.  Yes Mom. " But the job he will not make the mistakes made in European countries, that allow a violent ideology to take root in our country, on our shores.  We're not going to allow it to happen.  And as you all know, to protect our citizens from those who would do harm to us, I instituted a very controversial, very hard to get, travel ban on some of the world's most dangerous countries.  And the other day, one of the fake news reporters in the back said… They were talking about the travel ban, and they said, "Well you know, the president has of refugees to your state from Somalia without considering the impact on schools and communities and taxpayers.  I promised you that as president, I would give local communities a greater say in refugee policy, and put in place enhanced vetting and responsible immigration controls.  And I've done that.  Since coming into office, I have reduced refugee resettlement by 85%, and as you know, maybe especially in Minnesota, I kept another promise.  I issued an executive action, making clear that no refugees will be resettled in any city or any state without the express written consent of these fake ballots, millions and millions of ballots.  By the way, when not if, when you see shenanigans, please report it to your authorities.  Okay? The real authorities, they're watching and the authorities are watching, but please report it.  But when you look at it, really, it's amazing.  They're trying to make our numbers look bad, but even with numerous closed states and you notice also law and order, right? Law and order, the red states, the Republican states, they're working great.  Record low crime, record low, but Democrat run states, you look at Chicago, make your product in Mexico or Canada, send it over here with no tariff, with no tax.  Where we lose tax, we lose jobs, we lose our companies, we lose everything.  And they make a lot of money selling the product to us, same product.  So we're not doing that stuff anymore.  There's a tremendous disincentive, it's called, like, let's not do it.  And you haven't seen that lately.  You haven't seen too many companies leaving have you? It's sort of an amazing thing.  It's a little bit like what we did with your embassy. " So went on and on.  Then I said, "Let's do it anyway. " It's true.  And the word got out.  The word got out that I was going to do it, and I was called by every king and every queen and every prime minister and every … Everybody was calling me, "Please sir, don't do it.  Please. " So I did what we sometimes will do in business, I told them … When a king calls, when somebody calls, an Emir, when somebody calls, tell them, "I'll call them back in a America and standing up for the people of Nevada.  So very importantly, get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers and get out and vote on November 3rd.  From Carson City to Elko, from Las Vegas to Reno and from Clark County to right here in Douglas County, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty.  They want to secure our liberty.  Think of it and defend our freedom.  Nevada was founded by pioneers and prospectors, miners and combat.  I'm so sorry. " And every letter is individually done because sometimes the parents, they're grieving, and they get together with other parents, and I don't want to see that it's like the same letter.  So we do different letters.  It's the hardest thing I have to do.  Hardest thing. it's the hardest thing I have … I was telling Tom Cotton, it's the hardest thing that I have to do.  And I sign those letters, and it just, it breaks your heart.  And by the way, there's a time to fight.  that anymore.  All they care about is fill that seat, right? Until about 24 hours ago, that's all they talked about is TikTok, TikTok.  We have a deal worked out, I think with Walmart is going to buy it along with Oracle.  Larry Ellison, it's going to be an incredible combination.  And I said, "Do me a favor.  Could you put up $5 billion into a fund for education so we can educate people as to real history of our country, the real history, not the fake history. " Because we're getting very close to said it was manufactured.  They don't say it was manufactured, and we're stopping it and I want to thank Mexico.  They've got 21,000 soldiers now stopping people from coming into our country.  But Cortez, somebody said that's not her name it's… They said that's not her name, sir.  I said, "No, no, I don't have time to go with three different names. " We'll call her Cortez.  Too much time.  Takes too much time.  So Cortez also, she said essentially Nazis are running concentration camps, and when Mike Pence went down just a I see them campaigning right down the street.  It's really boring to watch, but I try and watch.  No, I have an obligation to watch really boring stuff.  But they want open borders.  They want thousands and thousands of people to pour into our country, many of whom are not exactly what we're looking for, okay? I mean murderers, rapists, and some other things.  They're going to be poisoning our children with drugs, including right here in New Hampshire, and you have one of the drug problems in the country.  And we brought it keep the oil, if you don't mind.  We kept the oil.  We kept the oil.  And we'll distribute that oil, we'll help out the Kurds, and we'll help out other people.  We'll also help out ourselves if that's okay.  Past leaders, foolish military adventures turned far away nations into very, very dangerous war zones.  Then they demanded that American citizens accept unlimited migration from those terror-afflicted nations and regions.  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  We did not fight them over there only to invite them over here.  our country.  We cut more regulations in two and a half years than any other president in their full terms.  Four years, eight years, or in one case more than that, cut more than anybody.  To get relief to working families we passed the largest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country.  You're making a lot more money.  You're making a lot more money and you see it and you know it because you see it in your paycheck every week.  We ended the last administration's cruel war in 2020 so we can take back the House, hold the Senate, and keep the White House.  It's the only way.  Only way.  Okay, so I'm going to ask these people to come up on this stage because we have warriors with us tonight.  We love warriors, like the guys that killed al-Baghdadi.  You know how much press I got? I don't care about press.  But Conan the dog got more than I did, and that's okay.  Conan was almost electrocuted, he deserves it.  They gave me about a day, and that's and there are plenty of people here without the red shirts, and I want to just tell you, the respect that we have for law enforcement is unbound.  It's unbound.  Come up here.  Bob, come up.  Say something.  Thank you fellas.  I'll see you later.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Great people.  Thank you.  What a group.  I think your very weak mayor made a mistake when he took them on.  As you know, for many years, leaders in Washington brought large numbers do it.  And it's a disgrace.  When all of their ludicrous hoaxes have been exposed as frauds, these sinister fakers then tried to impeach you for daring to call out their own corruption.  There's nothing like the dirty political establishment, and I have to tell you, this is, friend of mine, very smart, brilliant guy, was with me about two weeks ago.  We just got rid of the Russia hoax and then a week later the Ukraine hoax starts.  I had a week of like, "I can think about everything perfect.  It's so beautiful. I'm only kidding.  They won't write that, but that's okay.  They won't write the, "I'm only kidding part. " But far left politicians support deadly sanctuary cities demonstrating their sneering contempt, scorned and disdained for everyday Americans.  These jurisdictions deliberately release dangerous, violent, criminal aliens out of their jails and directly onto your streets, where they are free to offend, where they are free to kill, where they are free to rape, where they are free to beat up people except for ICE because ICE is much tougher than them.  They don't beat up ICE.  win the great state of Ohio. " And we won the great state of Ohio, and we won it big.  We knew we were going to win it.  And now we're up a lot more than we were up even then, because you know why? We're bringing back jobs.  We're bringing back factories.  Everybody's working.  Nobody's ever had a better year than we've been having.  And we've been doing it for a long time, right? Almost from the beginning.  And don't let them try and take credit, because if they came in, we  It's going to be very interesting.  And I called for a drug test, because you know what? I want a drug test, because we don't want to have a situation like we could have with this guy.  I watched him in debates with other 24 lunatics, and he was so bad.  No, he was so bad.  Maybe he'll win because they don't like me, they don't like my personality.  But I hate to say it, I'm what you need.  I'm what you need.  We love you.  We love you.  We want to give the people of our country a victory.  It's really, let it be a bipartisan deal.  I don't care.  It's such an incredible deal for this country, and NAFTA was one of the worst deals ever made.  Democrats need to pass the US MCA.  We need their votes.  Otherwise you can't pass it.  And it's up to Pelosi who has to put it forward, but she's too busy wasting their time.  So either pass it or go back to San Francisco and clean up your mess.  The Obama Biden's than three years.  That's a big thing.  Wait.  And then when you add energy savings, and you add tax savings, you have almost a $10,000 gain in three years.  That's a big difference.  And that's one of the very big reasons why our, I think that and regulations, but that's one of the very big reasons why our economy is doing so well, because they talk about our consumer is loaded with money.  Thank you very much, Mr.  President, I appreciate it.  But with the help of everyone here, we have now number?" 16 and 12 the year before, and you were targeted.  I don't blame China.  Look, they're smart.  They're negotiators.  They targeted Trump states.  Where do they love Trump? They love him in Iowa.  They love him in Nebraska.  They love him in all these states.  They love him in Wisconsin.  They love him.  We won Wisconsin.  They like him and Wisconsin, and a lot of the farm states, and they targeted.  The farmers came to see me and they said, "Sir, you have to do what's right. people.  But I'll tell you no administration in three-and-a-half years, no administration has done what we've done in the first three-and-a-half years.  But they want to punish you for praying in church while they let agitators and arsonists burn your churches down.  Look at Washington.  They want to burn the churches down, and that's fine.  But you want to go pray in church, they won't let you do that.  Just last week, Biden proudly accepted the endorsement of pro-criminal, anti-police, Portland district attorney, who has a policy of releasing rioters, vandals, criminals, and violent  An American Patriot.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Don.  How did Don do tonight? Okay? He's good.  Good guy.  And he loves this country.  So this is truly an incredible time for America.  We have the best economy, the most prosperous country that we've ever had, and the most powerful military anywhere in the world by far.  Do you remember the good time we had a week ago at the State of the Union? You remember that, right? And that was my honor.  But I proudly declared that we are putting America first.  Sorry.  We gave up on the globalist folks.  Let's build the world.  Let's forget about our country.  Let's just rebuild the world.  Or no issue have the Democrat politicians more thoroughly betrayed the American people than on the issue of immigration.  Far left politician… I mean, they're fighting me on the wall, you have no idea.  But we're building it and it's fine and we have the money coming in from the military.  I've got it from here, from there, from there.  Believe me, if I is incredible.  Even the New York Times gave it good reviews, not good reviews, beyond good reviews.  Tom Friedman gave it phenomenal reviews, you believe that? That's we achieved the first breakthrough in Middle East peace in decades, a deal with Israel and the UAE.  It's a deal with Israel and the UAE and that's going to lead and I'm going to tell you we have representatives over right now and other people are saying we want to get in that deal.  You'll have peace in the Middle East.  We want to get the hell and she said 500,000 jobs.  That was her goal.  And she did that in the first month.  She actually did.  She's gotten these great companies like Walmart, and many others, Exxon, she's gotten them to take millions of people.  She's now over 15 million jobs where they train people and bring them into the companies.  It's incredible.  15 million.  And she's smart.  She got it figured out, but most people can't, but she does.  But all they do is give them heat.  They work so hard.  And could goes, "What?" Couldn't believe it.  He said USMCA.  He made a mistake.  From his perspective, he made a mistake because he doesn't know what's going on.  Even though he's right, he doesn't know.  There were a little surprised to hear that.  They gave him a few chances.  Let's ask that question again, but we brought back our manufacturing jobs.  We rebuilt the awesome power of the US military.  We obliterated the ISIS caliphate and built the greatest economy in the history of the world.  Now, we are doing it again we proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback.  Our country is stronger today than ever before.  And the day after my address, our good Republicans in the United States Senate voted to reject the outrageous partisan impeachment hoax and to issue a full, complete, and absolute, total acquittal.  And it ,wasn't even close and I want to thank our Republican senators and our Republican House members.  They were tremendous.  In the House, we won 196 to nothing and then we got three Democrats.  And in the Senate, other then I thought to myself, think of it, we've spent almost $8 trillion in the Middle East and we got to turn off the lights of an airplane to land, how bad is that? They didn't do their job.  We did our job, and the military did their job.  But we fight to short of just keep going, we don't fight to win, I fight to win.  I fight to win.  So we land in this big, beautiful Air Force One and I'm saying, "Major, I don't see a runway. " Yes sir, it's right up say that.  They make it up and then they put it in ads.  So once they did that, the only good thing is I can say, I said, "Now I can say anything. " He is the worst candidate, the dumbest of all candidates, but he was dumb in prime time, as told to me by a Senator from long ago, he said, "Who's the dumbest in the Senate, who's the smartest in the Senate?" The smartest is, I won't tell you.  But the dumbest is Joe.  I said, "Who's Joe. " He said, "Joe Biden. on your Sec… You know, North Carolina's a very big Second Amendment state.  And, Dan Bishop, Greg Murphy, these guys, they're going to protect your Second Amendment.  But, one of the biggest issues in this election is, in fact, sanctuary cities.  McCready supports sanctuary city policies that force prisons and jails to release criminal aliens directly into your neighborhoods.  Get out.  Go ahead.  Go into the neighborhood.  Go into… What's your neighborhood.  Where do you… What? Rutherford County! Okay.  So, how do you feel about having them released, hardened, horrible criminals do it quite often.  I gave out five Purple Hearts.  And I meet people that are so beautiful, so amazing.  I met five warriors, and one was so badly hurt, with the loss of arms and a leg, another one … they're just very, very devastated.  But these are great, great people.  And I gave out the Purple Heart.  And I see the parents, and I have to say, Walter Reed, I want to just say, the doctors there, the job they do, you know, you hear so many complaints about doctors and about if they got in office.  Because we freed up our country, we freed up our economy especially with regulation cuts, but also with those big beautiful tax cuts.  We freed it up.  The leading voices of the Democrat Party are left wing extremists, who reject everything our nation stands for.  But again, I have to tell you, this vote was so big.  I have to thank many of the Democrats.  I mean, that was amazing.  No, no, I really do.  I respect it.  I really do.  That was a slaughter, And by the way, the US Marshals did a great job in Portland.  They did a great job.  You know what I mean.  If Biden wins, the rioters win, the anarchists win, arsonists, flag burners, they all win.  I'm running for reelection to bring prosperity to Nevada, to the whole country.  I've been here a long time.  I have some things in Nevada that are very good to put violent criminals behind bars and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China.  I do get a kick out of watching a we're still riding high because you know what? On November 3 we're going to win.  We're going to win.  So they came in and they came in and they said, "No no no, we want $5. 6 billion, whatever it was. " Whatever it was, if I'm a little bit off they'll go crazy.  Whatever, but it was a lot.  $5. 6 billion.  Nope, got to have a three.  Got to have a three, call me up.  Nope, cancel the contract.  I said, "Cancel the contract.  I want it canceled. " awesome power of democracy and unlimited potential of free people.  Together, we will continue to deepen the ties between our nations.  We will honor the faith of dignity of our citizens, and we will achieve incredible advancements for our people, for our children, and for the world.  We will discover new cures and save millions of lives.  We will advance cutting-edge technologies and lift millions and millions of people out of poverty.  We will pioneer new frontiers in space, working together, raising the sights of humanity.  We will uphold our values, defend our liberty, It's literally being signed now and will be under construction very shortly in couple of weeks.  And we've already built over a 100 miles of wall.  How about that? 100 miles.  And by the end of next year, we're going to have a lo more built.  And it's already having a big impact.  How about that, Democrats? "Walls don't work.  We want technology. " I said, "What do you want to do?" They want drones.  Oh, good.  When people are rushing, the caravans, when they're rushing, having a drone flying around is off now.  He's been up there long enough. " So they're screaming, "Get off, get off! Sleepy Joe, get off the stage, please.  Please Joe, you're doing fine.  Joe, you're doing fine.  You're doing fine. " And then he goes, "I love being in Ohio," but he was in Iowa yesterday.  Yes sir.  And they say, "Dammit, he should have left sooner, we told him.  Get off the stage, Sleepy Joe.  Sleepy Joe, get off the damn stage. " But he said about, Sleepy Joe, about China, "They're not that bad, folks. ISIS caliphate 100%.  In fact, I got it down to 98%.  Remember a year and a half ago, I got it down to 98.  And they all said, no, no, it's got to be a 100.  I said, somebody else could finish.  We want to get home.  They said, no, you've got to finish it, so we took another two months, we finished it and we're bringing them home.  We're bringing them home.  These great, great warriors.  People don't like it when I say that.  Secured American energy independence and people.  Thank you, Tom.  Great job you're doing.  We're glad to be joined as well by a man that I've gotten to know.  He's done an incredible job with COVID and with everything else he touches, Governor Kevin Stitt.  Thank you both.  Thank you both for being here.  Thank you.  Lieutenant Governor Matt Pinnell.  Thanks, Matt.  Thanks, Matt.  And Representatives Frank Lucas, Tom Cole.  He's been here for a little while.  He's done an incredible job.  Markwayne Mullin, you don't want to fight with him.   Did you see that? I was watching the news.  I was surprised that the fake news showed it and I said, "Isn't that a beautiful sight?" They couldn't get over the wall.  Couldn't get off.  They had to get the fire department to get them down.  Do you believe that? 30 feet up, that's like almost a four story building.  Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are now.  They're going crazy.  They're going totally loony.  Nervous nancy, how about Nervous … How about her district? Her district is He put out a LID today early in the morning.  LID means he's not going to be anywhere today.  I'm working my ass off, I'm in Ohio, I'm in Texas, I'm in Florida, I'm in Michigan, I'm in Wisconsin.  Man.  Thank you.  That's so nice.  Well, that is something that one of the fake news reporters back there, they said they've never heard of that one.  "There was a chant that's going over the last six or seven rallies saying, ‘We love you. '" That's never happened to a politician before.  Am had 10 million.  She just hit 14 million people have been trained by these great companies.  14 million.  Ivanka.  14 million, would you believe that's possible? But that's why we have the best unemployment rates, we have the best employment rates.  By the way, very close to 160 million people are now working in the United States.  Nobody's ever even come close to that number.  We've lifted 10 million people off federal welfare programs.  Real median income is now at the highest level ever recorded in the history of our country.  have grown by 400% and liquefied natural gas exports continue to soar at record numbers.  Thank you.  These tremendous exports not only expand employment in America, but they increase freedom and security for India.  To keep our nation safe, the United States and India forging an even stronger security partnership.  US defense sales to India have also reached $18 billion over the past decade.  We make the greatest defense mechanisms and equipment anywhere in the world and India knows that well.  We're looking forward to concluding several new defense deals very soon.  There  You don't hear that from the fake news.  Hey, America will prevail over the China virus, as Franklin Delano Roosevelt said, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. " That's it.  We're doing very well.  As the British government advised the British people in the face of World War II, "Keep calm and carry on. " That's what I did.  This whack job that wrote the book, he said, "Well, Trump knew a little bit. " They wanted me to come out and scream, "People are dying, we're dying. " No, no, night- Going crazy on television.  They were going, that was not a good night for certain people.  Remember the couple of people that were crying? I guess they don't like a strong military.  They don't like cutting regulations.  They don't like low taxes.  They don't like Right to Try, you know Right to Try.  All these things we've done.  For the Vets, we got choice.  We got choice for the Vets.  Choice.  Everybody said it was impossible.  We've rebuilt our military.  I told this story for the first discuss his execution.  Would you be willing to meet?" "Well, I won't be able to make it this week. " "Well, you know, he's traveling fast.  We got him lined up, Adam, you little pencil-neck. " Nine inches.  He buys the smallest shirt collar you can get, and it's loose.  Now come on, Adam, we got to meet faster on it.  We got to take this guy out.  We're not going to have another shot at him maybe ever again.  "But I can't make it now because I'm trying to impeach Trump, I'm police.  Thank you, law enforcement.  Increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities.  We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.  We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms.  We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of these ridiculous, stupid, endless, foreign wars.  We will maintain America's unrivaled military.  Our military might has never been like it is right now because of what we've done.  And we vote for me because if you don't, you'll be put in radical lefties.  You'll have a depression.  Your stocks will be worthless.  Your 401ks will be gone.  There'll be crime all over your streets.  So I'm not going to work at all.  I'm leaving now, but you have to vote for me because you have no choice. " Right? I could say it.  Right? Right? We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trail, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads.  Won two I want to be in South Jersey.  We want to be with our friends. " But we could have filled up the Meadowlands arena two or three times.  Maybe we'll do it during the summer.  Should we do it during the summer? Maybe.  But two brave guys, two great politicians.  People that love our state.  State senators Mike Testa and Joe Pennacchio.  Joe Pennacchio.  Thank you Joe.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Two incredible New Jersey natives, you've never heard of Kellyanne Conway have you say something.  Thank you  And we're doing well with the deal, but they want to make a deal.  "Please make a deal.  We don't want to pay tariffs anymore.  Please, please. " Thanks to our steel tariffs, steel mills in Pennsylvania are roaring back to life.  And U. S.  Steel has just announced $1 billion investment in Mon Valley Works in Pittsburgh.  You know that, right? $1 billion.  They weren't investing, they were divesting.  The steel companies, it's an amazing achievement.  We tax all of the dumped steel, comes in from China and other dollars online.  Anytime you see, anytime at all, you see an ad by Big Farmer against me, you know your drug prices are coming down.  That's what it is.  They're not happy.  And we're giving the rebate that creates tremendous wealth for the middle man, the rebate.  It's going to the people now.  We're bringing the rebate and it's going to the people.  They are not happy.  I have a lot of people in that industry do not like me too much.  But you are going to get 50.  You the damage and for the horror that they've caused, they have to pay a price.  And it's so easy.  It's so easy.  A lot of them now are wealthy.  They're like these wealthy, spoiled kids that have no clue about life.  They've got arms that are about this big but they were heavy jackets with lots … and you look and you say, "Oh, that guy looks tough. " And then the jacket comes off and you see these two little … And they go home and they live in a basement too, their mom sanctuary cities, lots of bad things they want.  Following orders from his boss.  I guess his new boss is Bernie Sanders.  Can you believe that? Crazy Bernie.  Joe Biden has pledged to abolish immigration enforcement, suspend all removals, provide free government healthcare, and they want to give it to illegal aliens.  You don't get it.  Restore, catching and release.  Shield violent criminal aliens.  This is what they want to do.  And give every illegal alien on the planet earth a free ticket to invent an asylum claim, and gain automatic admission release.  You know what catch and release is? These great men and women catch somebody, maybe a murderer, maybe a rapist, maybe a trafficker, they catch somebody, take his name, take his number and they release them into our country.  And they say, "Come back in four years, you have a trial. " No more.  We take them out.  We bring them out.  And nobody said that was possible because I couldn't have gotten it through the Democrats because they don't like that.  So we have people coming in to this country, some great president, I'll always support the heroes of law enforcement and I'll fight to ensure that criminals who murder police officers do indeed get the death penalty.  They want prisoners to vote too, they wanted to.  I said, "So what about the Boston bomber?" Remember Bernie Sanders? He wanted all prisoners to have.  And I said, "Does that mean everybody?" "Yes. " So we sent in a question, "Does that include the Boston bomber? Is he entitled to a vote?" And even Bernie is going, "Oh man, let's get into a different question.  This is not a  It's about her husband.  Darling, it's great to see you.  What are you doing here? It's like, "That's her husband, he's supposed to be living in the house.  You're here. " I don't think she's seen him in 10 years.  Hey, I have an idea.  Can I get a beer? Let's get a beer.  She wants to be one of the group.  Hey, let's get a beer.  Did you ever see such a phony, disgusting deal? Republicans will defend your sacred right to choose the doctor, and you can choose your do something much bigger and it's totally unnecessary.  The National Guard is fantastic.  I went to see them two days ago.  Biden went there today.  There was nobody there.  There was nobody there.  He was a little late.  I was going to say, "Hey, listen, we ended that problem. " But we could end it in Portland.  Wise guys in Portland.  Anarchists.  They're agitators.  They're looters.  I'll tell you we could end it in Portland in a half an hour.  We did it in Seattle.  We a newspaper, 2014, the same… Built by Obama and Biden, the cages.  And they don't- And they don't want to report the way it is.  They know the way it is.  They're not stupid.  They sent young boys to fight in Iraq while the inner cities crumble, helped the big banks while hammering community leaders, and made our cities less safe and secure for all.  They've done a terrible job and they shouldn't be awarded.  They should not get rewarded with an election victory on November 3rd, that shouldn't happen.  It'll destroy this He's against guns.  They're going to confiscate your guns, Second Amendment's going to be destroyed.  I am holding up your Second Amendment.  If it's not me, look what I've done.  You think it's been easy? They want to get rid of the Second Amendment.  They're going to get rid of the guns, right? And religion.  So, look what they're doing to religion.  These states, everything's closed, except, you're allowed to protest.  That's why I say everything we do is a protest.  Look at all those people back there, look at that. think really they were doing it then.  They started even before I came down on the escalator.  These people are maniacs, so you have all that.  So you're fighting that and you're doing farm bills.  We got your farm bill approved by the way.  We got your farm bill approved.  I don't even mention that because that's massive by any other standard, but it's peanuts compared to the USMCA and the China deal, right? So I don't even mention it.  Anyway, Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, Thank you very much, China, right? You were targeted.  12 billion, Sonny Purdue, Secretary of Agriculture.  I said, "Sonny, how much have they been hit for, targeted for?" Remember when China said we're not going to do anything, we're not buying.  They thought they were going to put pressure on us.  Sonny said, "Sir, 12 billion, the year before last and last year was 16, total of 28 billion. " We took 28 billion out of the tariffs.  China never paid us 25 cents, not 25 cents with Obama and Biden.  And in all  We ended the catch and release.  You know what catch and release is? You catch up them, they may be a killer, they may be a criminal at the highest order, you take their name.  Then you're supposed to bring them to a court, like Perry Mason, right? But we actually catch them, take their name, release them, say, "Come back in about four years for your court case. " We ended all this stuff.  And you think that was easy? It wasn't easy, let me tell you.  It was tough, but we have a and it's not working.  To stop the far left, you must vote in tomorrow's special election.  So important.  Or, get your votes in early.  I think a lot of… Who voted early for Dan Bishop? Good.  Well, that's good, but the big thing is tomorrow.  Tomorrow is the election, and you'll get out.  To protect your family, you must defeat open borders.  And, you have Democrat named Dan McCready, and he wants open borders.  He wants sanctuary cities.  He's not going to protect your Second Amendment.  He's doing nothing we've touched, we solved the crime, but they have to ask us.  If they don't ask us, we're not supposed to do it, but maybe we do it anyway.  And it usually takes anywhere from 25 minutes to … And it usually takes anywhere from 25 minutes to about one hour.  Wasn't that a beautiful sight though in Minneapolis, right? They're burning the poor city down.  I love that state.  I think we have a chance of winning in that state, first time in many years for a Republican.  They're burning Minneapolis.  You because it's from Charlotte to Kitty Hawk, from Durham to Asheville, and from Wilmington to right here in Winston-Salem.  We inherit the legacy of North Carolina Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation.  We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blaze the trails, settle the continent, tame the wilderness, dug out the Panama canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industry, one, two world Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world.  And we are making it greater  By the way, to this day, there has never been, and they'll always correct me, in the history of politics, in the history of our country, there has never been anybody that drew crowds like we draw, and I don't have a guitar.  I have no guitar.  But this has never happened.  I mean if you took Ronald Reagan, and we all like Ronald Reagan, I liked him, I thought he was a great guy, but if he came to Pennsylvania for a rally, if he had 1,000 people in a ballroom or something, you know? Nobody can sell…" You know, the truth is anybody that says they're a great salesman, usually they're not a very good salesman.  It's true.  It's those sneaky ones in the back that don't talk, that you don't know about.  They're the ones.  But Beto was nasty, and he said that he was born for it, like he was born from heaven.  He came down.  And if that's the case, some really bad things happen, because he made a total fool out of himself.  And he came out of Texas, the great state of sanctity of life.  We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.  We believe that children, like your child, should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.  And we live by the words of our national motto, "In God we trust. " We are fighting for every American mom and dad who wants to protect this land of liberty for their precious children.  We have been blessed with the greatest republic on the face of the earth, but it was going throughout America, which is what we should be doing.  Under my administration, we are finally taking care of our own citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes, and are entitled to a government that protects their families and their communities.  Every day, Democrats' open borders policies are harming and killing innocent lives.  In Arizona alone last year, ICE officers arrested over 4,500 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, and murder.  Right here in Phoenix, an illegal alien chased a man through a parking deadly crime spree, attempting to rape a 14-year-old girl.  Then raping an murdering a 60-year old woman.  Then shooting at a woman who took a shortcut through the park and was walking with her children.  And finally the police came.  We love our police.  And they were able to apprehend this terrible criminal.  Thanks to Democrat policies, MS-13 gang members… they're the worst… were allowed to infiltrate the country.  You know I called them animals and Nancy Pelosi said, "They're not animals.  They're human beings. " Take a look at what's happened  Well, not really.  I mean, I was okay.  He said, I'd really like more money.  I said, Jim, I like you very much, Jim, you're fired.  Get out.  Anyway, I had 14 great seasons over about 11 years because it was so successful, they kept… They would have run it.  Remember when they did the three hours, the whole night was the Apprentice.  I said, wait a minute.  Gone With the Wind, to mention the movie a second time, Gone With the Wind is shorter.  They had the Apprentice on  She's meaner, probably not as nice.  I don't know.  You can't get any worse than her, when you think.  But the big difference is she's smarter than he is.  Okay.  He's a nicer person, but he's not smart.  He never was, not in prime time and certainly not now.  The Washington vultures ripped apart our towns in exchange for his party's nomination.  Biden has now formed an unholy alliance with the most extreme and dangerous elements of the radical left, you know that, with crazy Bernie and everyone.  And by we have two justices of the Supreme Court, Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, they're great.  They are, they're great.  We have two.  And we could get a few more, yeah, we can get a few more.  We've spent over $2 trillion to completely rebuild the unmatched strength and power of the United States Military.  And all of that incredible equipment, whether it's submarines or missiles or rockets or jet fighters, bombers, it's all built in the USA.  We passed V. A.  Choice.  Thank you very much, Jim.  Where's my Senator? Jim Inhofe, take it anymore. " I don't think you'll ever have to make that trip.  I don't think he's ever going to have to, and I don't think Tate will ever have to make that trip.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before.  And ladies and gentlemen of Mississippi, the best is yet to come.  Because together we will make America wealthy again.  We will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe we informed them we're going in, and they sent their police to do it, and we never even had to go in.  But we can solve those problems in a matter of literally minutes.  Thank you.  Don't say that, I'll start to cry, and that wouldn't be good for my image.  You don't want to see me cry.  I'll start to cry.  One of the fake news broadcasters, because this happened the other day, we had a tremendous crowd like this.  I mean, we had a tremendous crowd in North Carolina.  They they're lethal, and they really are something that has to be stopped.  They have to be stopped now.  What's happening is a disgrace.  Thankfully here in Iowa your great Republican governor, sometimes referred to as Governor Reynolds, signed a state-wide ban on sanctuary cities.  Thank you Kim.  That is why we need to elect more Republicans nationwide, to end sanctuary cities in all 50 states.  Thank you Kim Reynolds.  You know I endorsed her, so I want to take full credit for the job she has done.  I endorsed her very early, and they're all over the place.  And, what we've done for them, and for religion, is so important.  You know, the other side, I don't think they're big believers… They're not big believers in religion.  That I can tell you.  You listen to some of them.  They're trying, and they're trying put out little statements.  They're not working too well.  Little statements that are a little bit, sort of, not too good, huh? What is the word we want to use? Yeah, a little… Nah.  Nah.  They're pushing a little hard, I salute each and every one of those true American heroes and that's what they are.  And nobody understands the border better than Hispanics.  They know what's good, what's bad.  They don't want bad people coming into our country, taking their jobs, taking their homes, causing crime.  Hispanic Americans are the people that are most in favor of what we're doing on the border because they understand it.  They understand it better than anybody.  With the help of these patriots, we've stopped the rampant asylum fraud, shut down the human smugglers and we're finding "Oh, boy.  Oh, boy.  Is this the best they can do?" I mean, in all fairness, I don't want to go too early here.  Look at the field.  Did you watch the debate the other day? We've got almost 350-million people.  I'll take it.  That's the best they can do.  We'll see.  We'll see.  You never want to get too cocky.  Somebody said in the great state of Texas, "Donald Trump is down two points to Buttigieg. " Buttigieg.  Buttigieg.  They're phony polls.  You know they have 700% increase.  He made this deal with crazy Bernie, a 700% increase in the flow of refugees.  So, he wants to lift it up by 700%.  This is in their manifesto.  He's also pledged to terminate all national security travel bans, overwhelming your state with poorly vetted migrants from jihadist regions.  Making matters worse, he would open the flood gates in the middle of a pandemic.  By the way, the wall, it's over 311 miles long right now doing very well.  Doing very well.  Make the mic louder, the mic louder.  the back of the plane was here to play golf, it was 121 degrees that day? I don't know about that.  I don't know about that.  What do you think he was doing with the Attorney General? I remember he said, "Oh, I just happened to see she was … I was here to play golf.  It was 120 degrees out. " I don't know.  A lot of crooked stuff went on.  I wonder what they talked about.  I'm sure it wasn't that she would become a Supreme Court Justice.  I'm sure it in November of 2020.  You're the forgotten people no more.  Right? No deplorables, right? No deplorables.  Who knew that was going to turn out to be such a disaster? But you know, she used the worst word.  What was the word she used? Irredeemables, right? I thought that was the problem.  No, it was deplorable.  So what the hell do I know about politics? She said, "You're irredeemable and deplorable. " I said, "Oh, that irredeemable's terrible. " The next day people are showing up.  Women, "I'm a deplorable. " Only this way love you.  We love you.  We love you.  We love you.  We love you.  But if Biden ever did win, he would surrender your country to the mob.  You know that.  And he will have nothing to do with it.  It's not him.  I mean, he's being … He's going to be pushed around.  And she's, by the way, just so you know what you're going to get.  She's considered far more liberal than Bernie Sanders.  How about that? That's what you're going to have.  I don't these people I guess I'd still be here if you want to know the truth, but it was a lot easier but we were 196 to nothing, the Republicans stuck together, and Kevin McCarthy's done a fantastic job.  He really has.  With the exception of a half a vote from Mitt Romney, you can have him.  He's not too popular, I want to tell you, he's not a very popular guy in Utah.  He's not too popular.  So it was 52. 5 to a half.  He's a beauty, I'll tell you that guy.  of your Second Amendment.  The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, the Second Amendment and the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life.  We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm.  We have tremendous energy.  Tremendous energy.  Everybody says to me, "Where do you get the energy?" Because I love what we're doing.  I see the results, and they're happening faster than you even think.  You see the years ahead of schedule.  Anybody else's President, you wouldn't be talking about vaccines for two or three years from now.  I'll tell you right now.  That I can tell you.  Biden will never be able to protect your jobs or your family.  He is a puppet of the socialists, Marxists, and the cop hating extremists.  And they are cop hating.  And we love our law enforcement.  We love our law enforcement.  And by the way, I don't know if you saw this, if there's any way of you seeing it, we picked Bernie Sanders to be her running mate.  Right? Because as crazy as it sounds, he was hot.  He gave her a hell of a fight.  A lot of people think he won and it got taken away.  One thing about Bernie, he's the greatest loser I've ever seen because look, any children here? No not too many, but they've heard it before.  He got screwed four years ago and he got screwed again.  Biden got the nomination.  He got the nomination.  But if Biden would have sat back and if Elizabeth a bad thing.  We're trying to teach that to the media and these idiots that ran our government for so many years.  These fools.  These fools.  You know, you got nuclear weapons, you got big armies, big navies, "He gets along with Putin.  That's a terrible thing. " No, it's a good thing.  If I get along, that's good.  He likes me.  I like him.  Not so bad.  "He gets along with Kim Jong-un. " … Not so bad.  He gets along with Kim Jong-Un.  That's a terrible $3,100 of which for regulatory cuts, $2,000 for the tax cuts, it's actually higher than that, $2,500 for energy savings, and $5,000 in real wage gains.  $10,000.  The child tax credit alone, which every Democrat in Congress opposed, is delivering $2,200 a year to the average American family.  Who's in favor of that cut.  Who's in favor of having that? You? People don't know.  They think the Democrats gave it.  The Democrats give nothing.  They're too busy.  They're too busy doing other things.  They don't do anything.  They're too busy they say to the farmers, "You voted for President Trump, are you happy?" And ever one of them said, "He did things that no ones ever done before. " Who would think of getting 12 billion plus 16 million, $28 billion, because they've been targeted.  That's the amount I asked Sonny, I said Sonny, "What's the amount they've took our of our farmers?" "It was 16 billion and the year before 12. " And said Sonny, "We got to make that up," and we made that up.  Who would do that? Nobody would do that.  First of to pay," you know? It's costing us billions of dollars to protect these wealthy.  You know what their biggest thing is? Because I can't understand how we did this for so many years, decades, decades … "You have been defending all of …" I won't mention names because I don't want to embarrass anybody.  I don't want to, forget it, some of the wealthiest countries in the world.  And when I say, "King, President, Prime Minister, Queen," no matter what I say, you know what they say? "But nobody's ever asked us to do that before," that's two prior administrations, under just three years, my administration has now added 12,000 new factories, and many more are being built and they're pouring back into the United States, because that's where the action is.  That's where they want to be.  They are pouring back into our country, new plants and factories.  You see them all over.  I passed two of them coming in, brand new, beautiful plants and factories.  They're pouring back in.  This is where the action is.  This is where they want to be.  I see the leaders, they back on his appearances because he is such a disaster, they're going to have fewer appearances.  You've heard that, right? They're going to cut way back on his appearances.  Can you believe it? If I ever did that, it would be over.  The fake news would get us, but we don't let them get us and it is fake.  And today the deputy editor of the New York times was demoted.  Isn't that beautiful? All the news that is not fit to print.  All the news, the fake failing New York Times.  It's said, "How much were they hurt by?" "Sir, 12 billion two years ago and 16 billion last year. " I said, "All right, good.  We'll take it out of China. " We gave them 28 billion, to the farmers.  That never happened before.  You think Joe Biden would even think about it? He wouldn't even think about it.  He wouldn't even think about it.  No, he's more worried about, does he have a teleprompter to answer a reporter's question.  The worst part about that isn't the fact that he's doing that, because let's face  I said, "Look, tell everybody I'm out for three days.  I'm not going to be able to call them back. " I had a news conference, we announced it.  Then I called everybody back.  "Hey, how you doing? How's everything going? Everything going good?" "Yeah, well, I wanted to talk to you about Israel, but it's too late.  You already did it. " And we did it and we got it done and nobody else got it done.  And it's something we had to do.  I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan and the destruction of the American dream.  Frankly, the destruction of our country, that's what's going to happen.  Take a look around, their party is afflicted with an ideological sickness that protects foreign borders, but refuses to protect our own borders.  Think of it, they fight all over though a lot of those people are coming back home folks, they're coming back home a lot.  We defeated ISIS, the Caliphate in Syria, we're bringing our soldiers back home.  ISIS does not like me too much, but I came here and it was a mess.   Behind him was like 10 blocks of fire was … I'd never.  It's a classic.  I don't know.  Anybody, you know what I'm talking about? Is it … So, I just have such respect, but you have to let these great professionals do what they do best.  You have to let them do what they … It's called law and order.  We need law and order.  So, Democrat phenomena.  If they win, Sleepy Joe, if they win, because he has no power over these people, these people are crazed lunatics.  If a lot of people this way.  It's called respect for the office.  They have respect for the office.  They really do.  Nothing wrong with it.  I sort of understand that.  They have respect for the office.  Nobody has more respect for this offices than I do.  That's why I'm doing a great job, and I'll always do a great job.  It's respect for the office.  But on November 3rd, Pennsylvania, will decide whether we end the pandemic, defeat the virus and return to record prosperity just like we were before, incredible, talented, tough, strong people that love your state a lot.  So thank you very much.  So we built the greatest single economy in the world.  And then we say not only the world, but actually in the history of the world, and they never even challenged me.  So I guess I'm right.  We did it.  We had the best numbers anybody's ever had.  We have the best employment numbers, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, the best employment numbers in history, the best stock market numbers in history.  We were the the power of money, right? Isn't that terrible? But I have so many people, 401ks are through the roof, your jobs are through the roof, we have the lowest unemployment rate.  And now, more importantly than anything, wages are up for the first time in many, many years, decades, decades.  You remember four years ago I was here, and I told people, I said, "You know, 20 years ago, people made more money than they made four years ago. " Not now.  Not anymore.  Because people now can not only make a lot more money, if  It's great being here in the great state of Arizona with thousands of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family, and country.  Thank you.  Thank you.  And with your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats and we are going to win Arizona in a landslide.  It's all over TV that the folks here tonight have helped a great World War II veteran into the arena.  I don't know if he knows it, but he's right now the hottest celebrity in the world.  I don't know what's going We always have to remember Pennsylvania, commonwealth.  Got two of them and you better remember you get in trouble.  But we love Pennsylvania.  And it's a shut down.  The governor's got it just shut down nice and tight.  And you know what? On November 4th, it's going to be opened up.  Because they're trying to hurt our numbers.  But our economic numbers are so good.  They're staggering.  They're the best we've ever had.  Jobs, retail, stock, market, everything.  And this is with a lot of shutdowns by Democrats.  makes it almost impossible.  We're not going to have that.  That was my one rule that I had to have.  It's going to be very, very hard for companies to do that.  I've also taken the toughest ever action to stand up to China's chronic trade abuses.  Earlier this month, the US government officially labeled China for the first time ever a currency manipulator, another promise kept.  While others allowed China to freely loot the US economy, $500 billion a year, not million, not million, billion with a B.  We've made it clear on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement.  We are one people.  We are one family and one glorious nation under God.  America is thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of Wisconsin, the best is yet to come.  You watch.  Because working together, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you, Wisconsin.  Thank you. Well, I thank a record enthusiasm and we are breaking that record by a lot.  This is the most important election we've ever had.  56 days from now, we're going to win North Carolina.  We're going to win four more years in the White House.  This is a choice.  And I must say, this is a choice for many, many decades.  I don't think you has a bigger difference and maybe you've never had a bigger difference.  This is the American dream and the other, I don't want to say it because I'll get myself in investment, have poured into 9,000 of our most distressed neighborhoods anywhere in the country.  9,000, never happened before.  Tim Scott.  Today.  I'm also announcing that I have directed Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt to place the John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park here in Tulsa on the African American Civil Rights Network.  So many of my friends have been asking me to do that.  So many of my friends, including these great politicians.  So we're going to do that.  It'll be done very quickly.  We will forever remember and honor the ruining farms.  They'd have to go out and sell the farm, they'd have to go out and get partnerships, they'd have to go out and borrow money from banks.  And then all of a sudden they're in foreclosure proceedings and they've never done that before.  They don't have to worry about that anymore.  If you love your family, that's a big deal.  They've been trying to get that, Sean, for what, 30 years they've been trying to get that, right? Especially for the farmers, because it's that kind of a business.  It's a great at the border.  They're paying for the wall.  All those trucks that go back and forth.  They're paying for the wall.  So the Democrats said, "Yeah, but Mexico…", they always have to find something, right? And do you remember what I used to say that if they fight us, remember people would say, "What happens if they fight you on the wall? What happens if they fight you right to hell on the wall?" I said, "The wall would get 10 feet taller. " Took a little hit on that, we took a little bit of strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.  Thank you North Carolina.  Thank you.  Oh, thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Well, thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  And considering that we caught President Obama and sleepy Joe Biden, spying on our campaign, treason, will probably be entitled to another four more years after that.  I wanted to thank you, and Art and Brandon, you're incredible.  I've known you now a long time.  Right one economy anywhere in the world, and it's not even close.  You know I'm dealing with China right now.  They're in Washington.  We're going to see if we make a deal.  But they want to make it.  We're going to determine whether or not we want to make it.  But they've been very nice.  And today I got a call from one of the top representatives, he said, "Congratulations, Mr.  President, on having a truly great, great economy. " That's pretty nice.  We picked up, since the election, trillions of dollars by the way, it's not even politics.  It's common sense.  They said millions of ballots.  People are getting ballots.  People died and they're getting ballots.  They're sending them to dogs.  You see that? Dogs got ballot.  Everybody's getting ballots.  Probably everybody, but Republican are going to get the ballots.  Right? And they're unsolicited.  So when you say, solicited, because I like solicited better as a word than absentee.  Absentee, nobody knows what the hell it's supposed to represent.  It's not really a good definition.  One is solicited, for American beef, pork, poultry, seafood, soybeans, rice, dairy, and much, much more.  But you know it is true.  China is so big.  1. 5 billion people.  We have 350.  1. 5 billion people, think of that, and we are just touching it.  This deal will be so big.  If it all works out, and you have the best product, the best product in the world, if it all works out, it will just keep expanding.  250 billion will end up being much, much more than that.  And, I've told this we've been treated badly for years, for years. " I said, "Well, you haven't been given a level playing field for many, many years, for decades.  You haven't been given a level playing field.  We're going to give you the levelest field that you ever had.  But, but in the meantime, I'm going to give you $12 billion, out of these tens of billions that we're collecting. " Don't worry.  We had plenty of left over, because we never got 25 cents from China.  China took from us.  We didn't take from China, right? get calls, and then all of a sudden we saw the plague pour in, and we saw what was happening, and it really stopped things.  But success was getting very, very close to bringing us all together.  And then we had to say, "Let's take a time out.  We got to fix this mess. " And we did, and now we're coming back strong, but success brings us together, and it was happening, and then we got that terrible situation happened, and we'll never forget it.  Biden and his party tried to lock law-abiding Americans into enforce the federal requirement that newcomers to our country must be financially self-sufficient, they cannot accept welfare for at least five years.  To protect our country and our agents during the pandemic, my administration took immediate action to ensure the safe and rapid return of all illegal aliens.  We brought them back.  We have very few in our country now.  We brought them back, can you believe it? To protect US workers, I suspended the entry of low wage workers that threatened all of your jobs, American jobs, and we're finalizing the new H-1B regulations to once in my life.  And I became President of the United States.  And hopefully if you get out and vote, we'll do it one more time.  We won't even toy with them about three or four more times.  We won't.  We'll do it one more time.  We'll be two for two.  And our country will never, ever be stronger.  But I'll be soon announcing a new list of exceptional candidates for the United States Supreme Court.  And I'll choose only from that list.  A hundred percent, probably 25 incredible people, all fairness, by most other administrations.  We have upped it to a level that nobody even believes is possible, and totally safe.  Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, rated the most liberal, are undermining science and risking countless lives with their reckless anti-vaccine rhetoric.  That's what they're talking about.  So now they know we have it.  It's only a question of weeks or a small amount of time.  So instead of saying, "That's a great thing.  We're going to save lives," they're trying to disparage it, they're trying to make it politics.  They're home.  You see what's going on.  After 19 years in Afghanistan, far away places, to bring hope to our inner cities, I created opportunity zones, Tim Scott, great senator from South Carolina worked on it with me.  Passed criminal justice reform, delivered permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities that Obama would never do and before the China virus we achieved the lowest African-American, Hispanic-American, Asian-American unemployment rates ever recorded by far.  And they're now heading back in that direction quickly.  Democrat politicians have failed the black community for decades, they've failed the Asian to do it.  They shouldn't be allowed.  These are far left lunatics that Biden selects to staff his government.  There are policies Biden's pledged to apply nationwide.  You're going to have the suburbs, they have a plan.  It doesn't matter, it's a regulation, very horrible regulation for the … Does anybody live in the suburbs? Because if you don't vote for Trump in the suburbs, okay.  Women that live in the suburbs.  They say, "Oh, they don't like Donald Trump. " I said, "I think they do. " Remember last time, remember it's met the people, never met the gentlemen. " Unfortunately, in about 10 seconds, a picture came out where they're playing golf together, but he never met him.  So now you'll ask him, he'll say, "No, we played around a golf.  We were together for three hours.  I never mentioned the fact that they're paying my son millions. " Oh, no, no, no.  … Well, they might be watching us.  I guess they do watch us.  He used to interview me.  He was so nice.  Prior to running for politics, he was so making it greater and greater every day.  It will never be better than what's coming.  There'll never be anything like what we're doing.  Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country.  We are returning power to you, the American people.  With your help and your devotion, with your drive, we are going to keep on working.  We are going to keep on fighting.  And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.  We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious your cities apart and they will go to your suburbs for all of those people in the suburbs that are ready to go about, they will go to your suburbs next.  I have the support of America's law enforcement heroes.  I was recently honored to be endorsed by the largest group of police and police representatives in the country.  We're endorsed by everybody.  We're joined by Butler County Mike Slupe.  Thank you, Mike, as well as two sheriffs who just changed their registrations, oh that's nice, to become Republicans.  They were long time Democrats.  After being set free the same criminal raped, brutalized and murdered a 92 year old woman.  They wouldn't give him to the ICE warriors.  Their warriors.  They're tough and they love our country.  They're very tough and they love our country.  They're taking MS-13 gang members … They're about as tough as you get, they're taking them out of our country by the thousands.  By the thousands.  That's a tough job but they love to do it.  They love our country.  Sanctuary city policies aren't just wrong, they're immoral, and years you watched as your politicians apologized for America.  Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of New Jersey.  My friends.  At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation.  I really mean that, it's the survival of our nation.  And if you would have had the other party winning this last election, instead of your market being up 72%.  Instead of your 401ks being up numbers that you can't even believe where your wife or your husband says, good friends, and they've always called me Don, Donald, D, they call me anything, and you lose all your friends when you're president because they're all afraid to talk to you, does that make sense? No, it's true.  Except for these six, seven, ladies up here, they always talk.  They're not intimidated.  No, it's true, I have guys, I have wonderful friends, New York developers, tough guys, smart guys, they're rich, they're this, that.  I have middle of the road, I have poor, I have everybody.  I have poor guys, middle of the road, and  He's always been a weak person.  And that was in prime time.  And prime time was 25 years ago.  And let me tell you, he's not old.  I always defend him on this.  I have friends that are 85, 89, 92, 95, and they're 100%.  There's just something wrong with Joe.  He's off, okay? He's off, and I have no problem saying it anymore when I watch the disinformation, because this is not disinformation.  This is fact.  If he's elected, his radical supporters won't just be causing mayhem on the in drug prices in 51 years.  The only decline in 51 years.  We have launched a historic initiative to require price transparency, empowering you to choose the lowest price for yourself and for your family.  Believe it or not, you didn't have the right to go in and price your drugs.  Who could even believe this? I wonder if big pharma had something to do with that.  So we're going to have transparency.  Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers womb.  Right up, up " And he said, "President. " I said, "Call me Donald.  You've called me Donald for 35 years. " "I will.  Thank you Donald. " I've lost all my friends because they're all scared to talk.  Honestly, I'm the president that they can't talk to me anymore.  It's like they're afraid.  They respect the office.  It's true.  They say, "President. " I say, "Do me a favor, Richard.  You've called me Donald for 35 years.  Call me Donald, please.  I want somebody to call me Donald. " True.  He borders.  They want to give illegal aliens free healthcare, free education, more advantages than our own citizens have and more benefits than our own military gets.  In the Republican party, we believe taking care of our own citizens first is paramount.  Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure our Southern border, illegal crossings have dropped 60% since May.  The wall is being built.  It's going up rapidly.  It's got a big impact.  And I want to thank Mexico.  We have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our border policing our border because the Democrats "Yes, that's okay.  It's got a three on it. " True.  True story.  True story, and then somebody said … it's true though, somebody said, "Well, it must be a different plane. " Yeah.  I said, "Yeah, we have a much nicer paint job. " We have a much nicer paint job, you know that, and it actually got an extra generator put on.  Okay? So it's actually more.  They said, "well, we could use an extra generator. " I said, "Is there anything else you need?" They said, "Sir, we could use an not even.  This is going to be the greatest victory.  This is a more important election than four years ago, I'll tell you, more important.  Because at no time before, has there been a clearer choice between two parties or two visions, two philosophies, two agendas for the future.  There's never been anything like this.  On November 3rd, Nevada will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity, like we had.  We had the greatest economy in the history … not of our country, in the world.  We were beating everybody.  New Hampshire alone.  200,000, right? Over the past three months, we've gained so many different, if you look at retail numbers.  Take a look at our retail numbers.  They're literally at records.  Look at some of the numbers be announced by companies.  They're at records.  Can you imagine giving that all up and starting again? It's not acceptable.  If I'm reelected, we will create 10 million jobs over the next 10 months, and we'll do that easily.  The Biden agenda, with big tax increases and big regulation increases, would immediately kill everything. Biden's staff donated to the same fund.  Look, that's where they're coming from, just so you know.  He's trying to go a little bit more right, like the fracking.  "Oh, well of course, we're going to have …" For six months, he's saying, there'll be no fracking, which I don't think the people in Pennsylvania thrilled with, do you agree, considering that your taxes could quadruple.  I tell it all the time, Texas, right? Texas, they like oil.  They like guns, right, in Texas.  Right? And they like God.  So he comes out everything right.  We did it right.  We closed it down.  We stopped China.  We stopped Europe.  Now we're opening it up and we're opening it up to record numbers, despite the fact that the Democrats are keeping their states shut down and hurting people that live in those states, shut down as long as possible.  But now Biden wants to do another blanket shutdown, possibly, that would decimate the economy and cause suicides, drug overdoses, alcohol abuse, heart attacks, joblessness.  You'd have jobs, all of the problems that it causes.  Because it's ship.  We have turned it around.  And we need so badly.  You know, it's like you plant a tree.  It takes a lot.  We have to get those roots to hold.  We have the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country, so many things.  So many things.  The best employment numbers, we have the best of everything.  And I think I'm going to count but I think it's like 118.  I told you, we have a record stock market today.  I think about 100 … I'm going number one terrorist, number one terrorist.  Do you know who that is? Qasem Soleimani, number one terrorist in the world.  Soleimani was responsible for murdering and wounding thousands of Americans and was actively planning new attacks, but we stopped them cold.  And frankly, they already started the attack, as you saw in Baghdad, on our very large embassy in Baghdad.  That was already started.  And I said to our generals, "Get there now.  We don't want to have another Benghazi.  Not on my watch, or on any watch. " They said, "Sir, we'll and if Russia or China or these other countries want to cheat, all they have to do is forge ballots.  It's much easier than the way they have to go about it, right? So we have to put pressure on these people.  Now the good news is we have a lot of court cases we have won in Pennsylvania, you know that, right? We have two judges, we have a state judge, we have a federal judge.  I think both highly qualified judges from what I understand, I hear that they're not too happy about what they're  I would love to have a law.  It has to go through a big process.  You burn the flag, you go to jail for one year.  I would love to see it.  I would love to see it.  I would love to see it.  I would love to see it.  If I were a Congressman or Senator, I'd be in there with that one.  You know, they'll say, "Oh, freedom of speech. " That's not freedom of speech.  You burn the flag, you should go to jail for one year. It says 10 years in prison.  And amazingly, amazingly, that was three and a half months ago.  And they were having a big march on Washington, march elsewhere, and amazingly, that was the end of the statues coming down.  No statutes.  And we're actually prosecuting people for having done it.  We made it retroactive to the beginning.  Terrible.  Terrible.  And by the way, the state statues and monuments, they have to do the same thing.  It's real easy.  But the rioters that want Biden to win, they want him to